Welcome to the Mycelium Network Podcast, a podcast all about early stage web developers
and the mentors and teachers that help them along the way.
Hey Ryan, welcome to the Mycelium Network Podcast.
It's a pleasure to be here.
It's a pleasure to join you, Skulk.
Yeah, pleasure's all mine.
We haven't talked in way too long.
I know, way too long.
Yeah.
I know you from Mozilla, and for a long time we worked together on the MDN WebDocs project.
And then you had a short period of time where you explored some other avenues, which we'll
talk about a bit later.
And then you came back to the Fall and joined the Mozilla family again.
So but I think since you rejoined, both of us have been heads down on a bunch of things
and never really got a chance to connect again.
So I thought, what better way to reconnect than record a bloody podcast?
So I invited you and I was so happy when you said you are into it.
So I'm looking forward to this.
Me too.
It's an honor, Skulk.
So to get us started, I've sat in many meetings where we've introduced ourselves, where we
were both in the room, where we've introduced ourselves to other people, where we've shared
some of our life's journey to people.
And so therefore, I know you have a really interesting story to tell.
So I'm going to keep quiet and start wherever you feel like.
And just tell us, who is Rian Johnson, where you come from, and how did you get to today?
Yeah, that's a great question.
It's especially fun talking to you about it, because I know of your background in music
and really accomplished in music.
And I always thought that was just so cool that you've got that artistic, cultural background,
and then you bring that to technology, because I can relate to that somewhat.
Yeah.
When I started off in technology, I always tell people that the reason I got into technology
was because I was very interested in humanities, writing, and art, and all that stuff.
But I think technology attracted me initially when I was young.
And a teenager was just because of the chance to make good money.
I came from a poor family.
And so that was one aspect.
But also, I think in a sense, that's kind of an external thing, really.
But from an internal point of view, I thought it was a chance to create some things.
I guess I was always attracted to engineering from the creative aspect of it.
And then also, I remember being really attracted to computers, really, from the point of view
of...
I had heard about artificial intelligence way back then, and that intrigued me.
How is it that computers think what?
What is that?
What does that mean?
And I was always intrigued by that.
And I wanted to get to the bottom of it.
So there was a philosophical aspect to it as well.
And I think that's probably maybe the biggest core of who I am is maybe I'm more attracted
to philosophy and psychology and things like that.
But technology was my way to make a living and get myself...
We weren't in poverty, but we just didn't have money as a family.
So I went into electrical engineering, and specifically what I kind of focused on...
I was never really into voltage and current and all that kind of stuff.
But what I was really interested in was computers.
And again, because of this angle of what is a computer and what makes it tick?
And so I focused on computer hardware, but we did computer hardware and software in college.
And I thought I was really fascinated by it.
And I enjoyed especially the digital systems point of view.
And I remember in my sophomore year of college, the light bulb came on and how hardware works.
And that was kind of cool.
So the college was electrical engineering, really a focus on computer hardware and software,
mostly computer hardware.
And I got out of college and I just wanted to do computer hardware.
And I started working for a company called Zycad, they were a little startup in Minnesota.
And I don't know if you remember, there was a big computer company in Minnesota called
Control Data, and they made these large mainframes.
And a few of the engineers from Control Data had started this company called Zycad.
And they were making this basically this supercomputer.
And I thought it was really kind of a cool...
It was very small at the time, and I joined when it was very small.
And so anyway, so that was fun.
It was interesting.
And I learned a lot about hardware systems and designing hardware systems.
But I also kind of began to realize that the only people that really get to do the creative
work in hardware systems are just kind of at the top of the pyramid.
And that started my transition, basically.
Then I did that for a while.
And then I think another, I guess, source of discontent was I was feeling like I spent
so much time studying tech, and I didn't really get to explore the humanities side of my personality.
So I said, I'm gonna start working in what we call within the hardware realm, we call
the applications engineering, which is you kind of work with the customers more.
It's very technical, but you work more with people.
So I did that for a while.
And then eventually I just thought, I don't know if I'm kind of sick of tech.
And so I started studying...
This will be crazy, but I started studying jazz guitar at the time and just thinking,
I'm just gonna quit my job and study jazz guitar and just figure out what to do next
after that.
And so I did, I quit my job.
And then, crazy enough, it's a long story, so I won't go into it, but I landed at this
Benedictine monastery out in the West Coast just as a guest.
They had this kind of thing where you could just go there as a guest and live there and
work there for a year.
So I did that, and that was really, that was just fun, it was a great time to just kind
of...
I just became basically a farm hand, I milk cows and just read books and thought and stuff
like that.
So it was really great.
That's fascinating.
But then, after a year of that, I was like, I wanna get back to life.
And so I thought, I'm gonna go into psychology.
So then I went and got my master's degree in counseling psychology.
And I just kind of had thought, I'm done with tech.
And it felt good, actually.
It felt more who I was.
And I remember I finished my master's degree, and working as a psychologist, as a therapist,
it's kind of hard to make a living.
So I was faced with like, well, how do I get a job?
How do I make money?
And some friends who were living in San Diego had started this little software company called
Cabinet Solutions, basically software for people who design cabinets, kitchen cabinets.
And they were just tiny, barely making a living, living near the beach in Carlsbad and San
Diego.
And they're like, hey, come on out to California and work with us while you figure out what
you wanna do.
So I did, I just went out there.
And it was kind of a shock at first, actually, because I'd given up on...
I hadn't followed tech or done anything in tech.
So I started programming in C, C++.
And it was really rough at the first.
And I remember just like, I started working with them, and then I thought, oh, I can't
do this.
But they talked me into it, you know.
So I kept going.
And sort of fast forwarding more is that I kind of just got pulled into software, which
I liked, because I thought software is like this space where everyone can be more creative.
And I think especially in the world that we're in, that you know even better than I do, Skulk,
is the open source world we're in, where everybody's creating these really high quality packages
of software.
And for me, I know the Python world the best, but also the JavaScript world, of course.
But it's pretty amazing, the industry really depends on these really high quality open
source packages.
Yeah, the world runs on open source.
Yeah, it's amazing, isn't it?
So it's like, I thought that was really cool.
And I still think that's really amazing, you know, that I feel like the software space
is so much more creative, you know.
And I was slow to realize that, you know, having been initially attracted to the hardware
side.
But yeah, my journey from there was, I think my first, I was working for a company called
Boston Scientific, but when I joined, they were called Guidant, they were in Minnesota,
and they were a medical device, you know, pacemaker, defibrillator manufacturer.
And that was really a cool place to work too, because, you know, it's just this new realm
of medical related and hardware, software.
And I was doing kind of software related stuff that was, I mean, I was working with software
that was kind of related to the hardware, the quality of the hardware.
And it was there that I really discovered Python through a friend.
And again, I was starting to kind of get tired of technology, and, you know, I think that's
one of the main themes of my tech path is just Python.
I just fell in love with it.
I just love the language.
I love the ecosystem.
I remember Django was just coming out, you know, the web framework.
And you know, I remember taking a class in Django way back then, you know, it was like,
one of the very earliest Django versions.
And that just got me hooked.
And I just, you know, I remember just telling my wife, like, I'm done, I'm only going to
take jobs that are related to Python from now on.
And so then I got this job at Seagate, again, kind of related.
They were trying to make non-volatile memory, but much denser in a research project.
And I came on as sort of, you know, working with Python to help them with their testing
and things like that.
So I did that for a while.
They Seagate eventually closed that.
And then the real big break for me was I saw an opening at Lucasfilm in the Bay Area.
And I said, oh, man, that's, you know, that would just be a dream job.
And it seemed so perfect, too, because they were really a heavy Python shop.
So I applied and was, you know, pleasantly surprised that I got, you know, an interview.
I still remember just all the details of flying out there.
The Lucasfilm, they have several campuses, but the main campus was right in the Presidio.
It's freaking gorgeous.
It's amazing.
And I remember flying out there and, you know, it was just fabulous.
And I hit it off with a team.
So anyway, I got the job and went out there.
And that really shaped me, I think, more than anything other than Mozilla, you know, just
because the team there was fantastic.
And my manager there, Lori Giannino, who's still there, a lot of this team, the team
that I worked with, a lot of that team is still there.
They were just fabulous.
Lori is just probably, you know, one of the best managers, well, definitely one of the
best managers I've ever worked with.
Jeff O'Dell was a manager there, just great people, great technology, you know, fun space
because we basically built Python software to help manage, you know, movie, the movie
production process.
And so I worked all my time there, I worked with Industrial Light and Magic.
So I got to meet some, you know, fascinating people, you know, that are kind of semi-famous
in the movie industry, you know, visual effects supervisors.
And it was really, it was fabulous.
And the team was, it was like one of those cases where I just felt like I fell into,
you know, we actually fell into something that was, you know, really great, great team,
great people, great organization, you know, fascinating work.
But of course, the downside, it was, the plus side and the downside is it was in the Bay
Area because the plus side is I love the Bay Area, I love the weather, the location, the
city.
The downside is it's so, you know, expensive that it's so hard to kind of plant roots there.
But anyway, you know, and then from there, you know, basically have to leave Lucasfilm
just for the reasons of trying to, you know, buy a house.
So I took a, I left Lucasfilm and went to work, one of my friends at Lucasfilm went
to work for a biotech company called Twist Bioscience.
They're building synthetic DNA for biotech research.
So I went to work for them for about six months, and I would love to get into some of that
because that's another theme I wanted to talk to you about, Skulk.
Anyway, I left Twist Bioscience and went, came to Portland, Oregon, and eventually landed
at Mozilla.
And to me, the two great places I've been at are Lucasfilm, Mozilla, and like you said,
I, you know, I had my early stand at Mozilla where you and I worked together on MDN Web
Docs and then went off and worked for about six months at a quantum computing place called
PsiQuantum, which is fascinating.
And then now I'm back at Mozilla and I'm so grateful to be back because Mozilla is such
a special place, you know, as you and I know, there's a lot of special people here that
really care about, you know, the web and ethics and, you know, what's good for humanity in
terms of technology.
So anyway, I jumped all over the place, but I think another thing I wanted to touch on
with you was, I think one of the themes throughout my whole career that's kind of driven what
I do is just trying to find, I guess, a context in which to work in technology that feels
humane, you know, like where the ends are humane and the way we work together as a team
is humane.
And that's been such a, you know, I'd love to talk to you about that because I feel like
it's, that's one of the biggest challenges, I think, you know, like I think one of the
questions you had, that you had, you know, kind of laid out that we could talk about
was just like, what are the challenges in tech?
And I feel like that's, that's to me, one of the biggest, you know, apart from the larger
challenges of, you know, all the ethical dilemmas of, you know, big tech and social media and
AI and all, you know, kind of the bubbles, you know, the kind of the worldview bubbles
that you get into in social media and that kind of stuff, which everybody has been well
documented and everybody, you know, hopefully knows about that, because those are huge,
you know, I think world destabilizing kind of issues.
But apart from that, I feel like one of the biggest challenges is just, I think, you know,
I don't think in technology, we found a way to work together, you know, like, yeah, we're
building technology, but it's a social endeavor, you know, you have to get a team together.
Technology is so complex that you have to build teams and teams are groups of people.
And I feel like we don't yet in tech have a good feeling for, you know, or I don't know,
how would you say the scope, but I feel like we don't have a good appreciation for that,
how important that is.
And I think that's one of the things I love so much about Lucasfilm and my manager, Laurie
Janino and Jeff, my managers there, Laurie Janino and Jeff Waddell, is that I feel like
they were just very people centered, you know, like Laurie just felt like I'm going to build
the team, the team is the most important thing, and the technology will come out of it, you
know, and the technology will follow.
And it's so rare.
And I think that's something I've always been thinking about and chasing, you know.
Yeah, I know for sure.
I think one of the things that might have been contributing to this is, I don't know
when exactly it started, but at some point, I think it might have been in the initial
dot com bubble and burst, and then it followed on from there.
It's this idea that you don't spend more than two years at a company.
Like if you're longer at a company for two years, people start questioning like, what
the heck, why are you still here?
And I think because of that, you can never really build a culture because just as the
culture starts forming, a bunch of people leave and new people enter.
Totally agree.
I think it's good to have movement, but I think there's too much turn.
And so I think people get into it for the wrong reasons.
But I think that is why places like Lucas Formezilla, and hopefully what I can create
with the company I'm building, is somewhere where there's variety and where you're encouraged
to come up with ideas, explore them, fail, and it's okay.
I think in a lot of companies, while they say failure is good and the more you fail,
the more you learn, oftentimes you'll find that it's not really true.
If you do try something that doesn't work, it's rare that they're going to celebrate
that failure.
There's going to be a heck of a lot of questions that's going to follow that failure.
And if you can't justify it, you're more often than not going to be out of a job.
So I think that that's the problem is like companies are just, and I think a lot of people
just do it for the money.
And I think that's also incorrect.
And I think it's got a lot to do with marketing around tech, where there's a narrative being
spun that it's a way to get rich, you know, get a job in tech and just one, two, three
years and you're going to be a millionaire and you can like quit and go sail a boat for
the rest of your life.
And sure, that happens to some folks, but those are not the rule.
Those are the outliers by a big thing.
And I think people keep chasing that and that's why they keep leaving and leaving and leaving
because they're chasing something that, and I don't think that you should do it for that.
I think we should, like you said, have humane ends and the means should be humane.
So that we're building culture, we're building a group of people that believe in the product
that we're building or the products that we're building.
And I think open source maybe has more of this than working at a specific company.
Some you're lucky to experience that, like Mozilla.
Maybe that's why Mozilla has this theme, because it's largely open source.
Because there's this dude, Ron Lanier, that is now, I believe, still at Microsoft Research.
And he made the point that one of the most successful social networks is GitHub.
They've somehow got it right.
And he's thought around it is it's because there's a sense of ownership and there's
this sense of co-creation and there's a creativity there.
So while on social media you send a tweet and it's ephemeral, it just goes into the
void and maybe nobody sees it, here you're creating something together that is having
direct impact.
Like MDN, for example, we're all building it with this big community of contributors.
And it has a good feeling about it because we've heard so many times how people have
told us how it's had an impact on their life.
Like I was able to contribute and through that I got a job or I was able to learn because
MDN is for free and now I was able to lift myself out of poverty.
So when I think when you hear things like that and you work together as a group for
long enough, it starts building a relationship with everybody.
And then it's really hard to leave.
I think everybody that's left the team in the last year or two, it was not easy.
Beautifully said Skulk, you should be the subject of this podcast Skulk, I loved everything
you said.
It was beautifully said and you're absolutely right.
I think you touched on one of the key things, it's just nobody stays any place long enough.
And the two exceptions in my career have been Lucasfilm and Mozilla, where Lucasfilm, that
same group like Lori is very protective of her group.
And they've been together for 10, 15 years now and largely the same group is still there.
And they really, like you said Skulk, it's all like you want to work in a community where
you feel accepted and everybody wants to be accepted in the community and create something
together.
So yeah, I loved everything you said, I could just sit back and listen to you go on because
I think that's so important and I think that's missing.
I feel like that's, you said it so well, I feel like some open source projects have better
communities than any companies do.
Yeah, for sure.
If I take a common month, because in this year I basically changed careers from a friendly
engineer to a community manager and I mean, if I take the number of times that we've had
somebody that's been not even necessarily toxic, but just disruptive as part of this
massive open source project, one of the, what in the top 20 open source projects on GitHub,
it's been like, I can count it on a single hand.
And if you compare and contrast that with stuff you hear that happens inside companies,
the way women are treated, the way people who are non-binary, and then also crazy things
like people who have neurodiversity, who are being treated really unfairly and they have
so much to contribute if you play to their strengths.
But oftentimes our world and the companies that run the world are not set up for these
people and then you lose that sense of you feel as an outsider and then it's hard to
find, it's hard, everything becomes harder because I heard the other day, I spoke to
Jennifer Riggins on a different podcast and she mentioned that they did some research
and if you blinded people doing reviews, so you don't know the gender or anything about
this pull request that you're reviewing, more pull requests of women are accepted than men.
But if you take the blinders off, the opposite happens.
Because there's also this weird thing with a female will not apply for a job unless she
feels she meets 100% of the job description criteria, whereas the average man will apply
if he meets only 65% of the criteria, which is crazy because we all know job descriptions
are bogus.
I mean, if you can literally fulfill everything they ask for, you're a superhuman.
You're a superhuman, exactly.
Because honestly, I can't believe, as we mentioned previously, some of the challenges in tech,
I think that is still one of the biggest challenges is the interview process and how the job descriptions
that people use are just unreasonable and it makes it super hard for people getting
into tech, so it doesn't necessarily mean people are like in their early 20s.
This can be somebody in their 40s that has been doing whatever for their whole life and
just decided, I want to do something else and I decided to get into tech.
That is one of the hardest things is they look at this world and they're like, where
am I going to find my place?
All these people want three, four, five years experience and they want me to have experience
and databases and all these things.
I did a boot camp, I have some basic knowledge and I can contribute to something.
So you feel like you're running in molasses, as they say.
The other crazy thing about our, and hopefully this won't last too long, but because of this
insane layoffs that's happened in the last six months almost, there's this weird counterbalance
that's happened in the tech industry where there are thousands of highly skilled people
on the job market now and so all these new folks that got into engineering with promises
of wealth and success now have to compete with these people for positions and so it's
making their lives really, really tough and like me, I see that because I run this little
this community and there's quite a number of people there that's exactly at this point
where they're entering this market from as young folks or as people that was a lawyer
for the last 10 years or whatever and they're scared that they might have made a mistake
because they're looking at the situation and they're like, oh, I'm not so sure if I'm going
to get a job.
So you have to be, and it is tough, I don't lie to these people, I told them it is tough,
but don't give up because there are companies out there that value the person over just
the media labor of writing code every day that will take you in, that will give you
an opportunity and allow you to grow inside the company because that's what you want.
You want to take that person that's enthusiastic in and give them a place to grow because you
as the company, you're going to, wow, you're going to reap the benefits of that big time.
Yeah, wholeheartedly agree, Skollak.
I feel like what's missing, one of the biggest, I mean, kind of a riff off what you've been
saying, which I loved everything you said, is that I feel like one of the biggest challenges
that I would love to be a part of the solution is, one of the biggest challenges we have
is to create, I think you touched on it, almost all of tech is focused on just money, basically,
profit.
And I feel like we need a different model where obviously you have to make a living,
we all have to make a living.
So there is that side where you have to bring in income, but I feel like the focus should
be more on building a community, an organization that's a community of people that really care
about each other as people.
And we also realize we have to make a living and we can use each other's talents and gifts
as a community to make a living together and use tech, and tech is just sort of a way to
do that.
And then, I feel like that's so necessary, we need a new model, I think we need new experiments,
I guess, to find new models where this will work.
Mozilla is kind of one of those where it's not perfect, but it's different, it's different
enough where I think there really is some sense of community there.
Obviously I've seen the dark side too, but in the Bay Area, it's just too much driven
by money, it's just pure money.
And I was shocked at how cold-hearted that is, like you said, there is no sense of community,
there is no sense of we're doing this for each other and for our customers.
And I feel like that's missing sometimes, it's all about how do we achieve money rather
than let's build something that's of value to our customers and of value to ourselves
as a community that's making this.
And it's almost like we need organizations that are more like small craft-oriented or
places that are doing this out of the love of providing something for somebody and also
a love of doing something together and creating something together and supporting each other.
And what's sad is that often you talk about this and people roll their eyes and you know,
oh yeah, the business world is cold and that's not going to fly, but it will fly.
People do create excellent small companies, whether it's bakeries or whatever.
And they do create successful organizations because they do focus on, hey, let's serve
our customers something really good, something quality, but let's also care for each other
in that process, like you and I were talking about.
The end is good and the means is good in terms of getting there.
And I feel like that's so hard to find, it's too hard to find in our industry.
I think that's the biggest thing that young people face.
Oh, one more thing I wanted to, sorry, my brain is firing from all this stuff.
Yeah, no, go for it.
But one of the things that's been inspiring me lately is I like jazz.
And I love in the jazz community, there's a sense of, I think the jazz community has
such a healthy, there's something really healthy about it, more than I've seen in other places
where the elders of the jazz community, the greats, they feel this responsibility to bring
in the young, the people that are entering jazz and to kind of take them under the wing.
And then the young also feel like they need to respect the tradition, the Coltrane's or
whatever, Miles Davis, and they need to kind of absorb what they've done and respect them.
But what was interesting is that the elders of the jazz community want them to, hey, you
got to absorb where we've been, but you don't absorb it to copy us, you absorb it to take
it where you want to go.
Yeah, exactly.
And I thought that was just so beautiful, that balance between creating something new
and respecting the tradition.
And I feel like a lot of that applies to any organization or in tech, which is a creative
industry.
Yeah, you've got to kind of absorb the tradition.
You've got to look at, for example, in the Python world, hey, how did Django build this
framework? And how did they go about doing this? How did the Django folks do this? And
then look at the code, look at the way they organize themselves, look at the community
they've built, and then digest that and then say, how can we make this even better? Where
can we take it from there?
I think that's just so cool about jazz. And I feel like that's not, it's not really there
in the tech community. There isn't a sense of like...
Yeah, it's unfortunate, right? I mean, because I totally get what you're saying. And I think
a lot of the craft industries are getting a drive. And here it's like, insert whatever
product like craft coffee, craft bakeries, craft beer, craft teas, all these things.
I think what I've seen in a lot of these places, when I look at their, the way they share,
what they've accomplished, they always celebrate each and every person that's there. And I
think being smaller net helps there. Like there's a point where you get too big, which
is something that I'm very, very conscious of, is I think there's some point where you
have to ask yourself the question of how much is enough? Because I think some people have
forgotten to ask that question. And there's some people in this world that have more than
is really fair. So you have to ask yourself the question of when do I have enough? Because
there is a saturation point for all of us. And it might differ from one person to the
other, but I think it kind of tops out at a certain point. And then how big is big enough
if you're creating a company? And I think there, it also differs, but I think there's
also, again, there's saturation point. I think as soon as you lose touch with the people,
you're getting too big. As soon as the people aspect starts getting lost in process and
I don't know, policy, you probably should start looking at the bigger picture and ask
are we getting too big? Should we slow down? And most likely the answer is going to be
yes. Because the other big thing that I see in those things is the sense of community.
And what do you want in a community? You want everybody to succeed. There's no community
formed around the idea that I want to push you down so that I can be on top. That is
not what a community is about. When you're in a community, you want to lift everybody
up. So if somebody in the community is struggling, you're going to say, how can we help? So you
will naturally, it's almost crazy that we're not doing it this way. Because it seems to
me it's a better recipe for success than focusing on material wealth. Because there you quickly
get to the doggy dog world. I think you get to the doggy dog world very quickly and then
it gets toxic. Whereas if you're in this community thing, everybody is there to make sure that
everybody succeeds and whatever success means for you. But it's important that you understand
what success means to somebody else so that you can support them in that journey. And
they will naturally do it back because that's how karma works. That's how we as human beings
work. If I feel that you have my best in your head, then I will do the same for you. But
if I feel attacked by you, then I might naturally attack back. Because our little lizard brain
will kick in and say, danger, we need to either run or we need to fight back. And I think
you know that while having studied psychology. So that is actually quite an interesting inflection
point there. How does that knowledge you gained studying counseling psychology, do you find
it useful that you know that in the tech world? Does it help you deal with some things?
I mean, I think you've already touched on a lot of it, Scott. You said it so beautifully
really is. I think technology is, the people in tech are too focused on the tech. And they're
not focused enough on the community. They're not focused enough on that. We can't build
anything of value unless we do it together with a community of people. And it's too often
focused on who's the best. They get all the spoils. It isn't like, hey, we did this together.
It's just like, oh, Tesla is Elon Musk. No, it's not Elon Musk. It's like a whole group
of people creating something. I feel like that's what psychology is. The study of that
is helped in the sense of this. You see the complexity of doing something together as
a community of people. People have different motivations. They have different interests
and different talents. And that is to me so fascinating. It's just during that stint when
I was managing the engineering team at MDN Webbox, I loved it from that point of view.
I would love to be, I think management interests me just from that point of view. How do you
build a community and have people feel like they're doing what they want to do and can
contribute in a way that appeals to their strengths? I think that's the side of psychology
that's really fit in the tech world. And I feel like we need more of that. We need more
engineers, people who are interested in tech who bring that focus of caring about not just
the tech, but how we work together. And we've touched upon all that. And again, it goes
back to your point, Skulk. I'm so glad you're a community manager now at MDN because I've
always felt that from you. You always have had that strong sense of like, hey, we got
to do this as a community. The community matters. But when the bottom line is quarterly profits,
the community doesn't matter. Obviously, look at the way Musk has treated Twitter. The community
doesn't matter at all. All that matters is tech and working hard and feeding the beast
of quarterly profits. We can't survive as a, humanity can't survive if that's the model
of organizations. It's crazy. Organizations are part of a larger thing called society
and countries. And the way we organize ourselves as corporations, it matters a lot. It matters
a lot for society. And people have to work in these kind of cold machines called corporations.
I think a lot of the big tech companies are kind of colder than... Some are less cold
than others, but they're pretty impersonal and can be pretty cold. And I think we need
more of these smaller communities where there's more warmth and more support in each other
while you're trying to make... You need that dual focus. You got to get a group of people
together that really care about making something of value for others. I think that should be
the focus. Hey, let's create something of real value for others and take joy in that.
And then also take joy in, we're going to do that and make a living at the same time.
The goal isn't to get rich. The goal is to put food on the table, support our families,
enjoy life, participate in society, and then also create something of value for others.
And I feel like that's... I think we need more of. We need that in the tech world. And
it's not easy. I'm not saying it's easy. It's easy to put our finger on it. But I feel like...
You've already said this better than I did, Skulk, but I feel like it's too focused right
now on money and people get into it for the wrong reason of getting rich. And it should
be more on like, hey, how can I support myself, support my colleagues, and do good things
for the customer? Yeah, for sure. That's a much healthier approach.
I think maybe we're at a point where the time is right to experiment, like you said. Experiment
with some new ideas, some new ways of working. That's why I always like to, when I refer
to the people that use MDN, I like to refer to them as readers as opposed to users. Because
I think language matters, right? The language we use often changes how we think of something.
So if you call somebody a user, you might think of their needs differently than you
might if they're a reader or a learner. So I think language matters. And I think to some
extent... That's really well said.
We've kind of done some of that at Mozilla, but then it slips again. So we have to constantly
remind ourselves that what we call the people that use our products, benefit from our products,
we need to think about the language we use, because it's going to mentally flip switches.
That's going to make you think about things. And I think then it's also important to see...
I think that's what's kind of nice about Mozilla is this whole Mozilla-ians thing. You know,
once a Mozilla, always a Mozilla-ian. I think that extends that. That is what I'm talking
about, the language. That makes it feel more like it's not just a company. It's a bit more
than that. But yeah, it's tough because sometimes the family is not that healthy. And then some
things happen that's also not healthy for the family. But yeah, it's interesting.
I know we're running low on time, Sculpeh. Just one more thing, the thought that occurred
to me. I think it's maybe a good topic to end on. I feel like with technology becoming
more powerful, artificial intelligence is incredible what that can do now. And the power
of that to solve problems is incredible. And dabbling in quantum computing and working
for that PsyQuantum for a bit, I see what's coming there. And that's incredible. Once
a quantum computer is built that's usable, that can solve real problems. And one of the
biggest focuses there is really chemistry. At PsyQuantum, the founders talk about quantum
computing will be able to basically solve chemistry problems that are just absolutely
impossible to solve. And you can actually engineer materials and that kind of thing.
So there's a whole revolution coming in quantum computing. We're already in the middle of
a revolution with artificial intelligence. That's all we all can talk about that and
see that coming. But I think everything that you and I have been talking about, the community
aspect and the way we organize our organizations, the way we create communities, I think because
of these developments in tech, that's even a hundred times more important now. If we
don't get that right, these powerful technologies of quantum computing and AI are going to be
controlled by organizations that don't have a sense of community. All they do care about
is getting rich and enriching a few. And that is dangerous. I guess my point is that it's
so imperative that I think humanity in the tech world solves this problem of how do we
organize ourselves in terms of providing value to people and make a living in a way that
supports the external community outside the organization, as well as the internal community
within the organization. I feel like if we don't do that as human beings, it's super
dangerous. We've got these amazing, powerful technologies coming down the road and we don't
have the organizational... How would you say this, Skoll? But we don't have that sense
of community and how we organize ourselves yet. That hasn't kept up with it.
No, it hasn't. Technology has run away with us. I totally agree. The big thing that is
needed is ethics, right? Because a lot of things that's not happening is ethics. And
I think if you build a healthy company with a sense of community and purpose, ethics comes
built in. But if those core things that you just said are missing, then ethics become
like accessibility, where it's bolted on and it doesn't really feel sincere. So I think
you are 100% correct that the technology is evolving at the speed of light, but we need
to step back and look at what are we doing with it and how are we treating each other
in this process. Because a lot of the technologies we've built are toxic to us as human beings
and to our children and all of this. And it's simply because it's run away. We've lost touch
with it and it's evolved to a point where it's out of control. But all is not lost.
I think the fact that me and you can have a conversation about this and be in agreement
on this means there are more people that will also feel this way. And connecting all of
those people will build up a momentum that can then drive a change. Thanks so much, Ryan,
for this lovely conversation. Thank you, Skalk. I'm just energized after talking to you. I'm
serious. I could just go on for like two more hours. No, for sure. I was about to say that.
So we'll definitely do this again, whether it's on a podcast or just because. But yeah,
thanks so much and have a lovely rest of your day and all of the very, very best. Thanks
so much, Skalk. It's really been a pleasure.
