Welcome to the Mycelium Network Podcast, a podcast all about early stage web developers
and the mentors and teachers that help them along the way.
Hey Raphael, welcome to the Mycelium Network Podcast.
Thanks Kouk, thanks for having me.
It's a huge pleasure. I'm glad we're finally able to meet and to talk.
I think you were maybe, after Riku, you were like the first person to join the Mycelium
Network and you've done so much to promote it. I am really grateful for everything you've done.
I know a lot about your story, but the people listening to the podcast might not. So I think
the best place to start is for you to tell us more about who you are. And as I've said with
previous guests, feel free to go as far back in history as you want and up to the present day.
All right. I'm Raphael. I'm Brazilian and actually I'm not from the IT world. I've been
working with criminal law for like eight years. I work for a judge and I work with you in criminal
cases. And this year I started to migrate to change career paths. And I was actually curious
because one of the things I started doing when I started studying programming and everything
was working with translation. So I started working with the MDN localization and then
I popped up in one of the, I think it was, it was the first community call you promoted.
And then one thing led to another and I ended up in the Mycelium Network. And about me, I actually
have had a brief contact with programming. Like 15 years ago, I started doing mechanical engineering
and I went as far as the third year, but then I gave up and started studying law. And by that time,
it was very different from the feeling that I have now. I started studying in the university
and we started with, I think it was Pascal. And I think it was Turgopascal. And actually we did all
the exercises on paper, not on computer. It was very strange. And it was a fun discipline to take
a fun course because it was very challenging. We were studying basically math problems,
but it was not very welcoming. So it didn't get my attention at the time.
And my two brothers, they are in the IT field. My middle brother is on
Netherlands. He's a backend developer. And my younger brother is on the university. And I have
always had this like proximity with tech. I always liked to discuss with him about some issues,
about the technology in general, but I never really dug into programming since that period.
And in my job, my actual job, it's curious because I'm known as the IT guy because it shakes
everything for the people that don't know anything about it. But mostly it's like very common issues
and very basic issues that people have kind of, people are always afraid of computers. I don't
know how to explain it. So mostly what I always do is like reason with someone like, why do,
what do you want to do? And why do you think it's not working? And it's basically leading them to
find the solution themselves. So the other thing that led me to change career paths is because I'm
planning on moving to Canada next year, the beginning of next year. And then it's a long-term
plan, like to migrate completely to the tech field and maybe someday become like a digital nomad.
It's like a dream I have with my wife. So it's like a plan for like five, 10 years. But in the
short future, I probably will be working with law in Canada. I will be working in a lawyer's office.
But it's since I started studying programming, the community and I've been part of the
Missile Union Network, but I've been part of a lot of different communities. I've been exploring
a lot of different communities. I've been exploring a lot. And this is something I never
had imagined back then when I started computing and then gave up. Because it's really a different,
it gave me a real different impression of the field. So I talked to a lot of people,
I connected to a lot of people. And I found in like two or three months a lot of friends.
I don't know anyone personally, but I have a lot of exchange of thoughts, of ideas. And it's very,
it drives me further. So basically that's it. And as you always say, I'm an early stage
developer. And I like this provocation of yours because we have some stigma with the word beginner.
And I have another mentor that always tells a little joke. We are always beginners here.
Some are beginners from a longer time. Some are beginners from short time. So it's like
putting things into perspective and we are always beginning on something.
Yeah. No, that's very true. I mean, that's why I think that because, like I've said,
backend developers going into frontend, that's new to them. And even for frontend developers
exploring, there's so many frameworks and things coming out these days. It's kind of calmed down
a little bit, but there's still a lot of action happening. I think in CSS, it's starting to
happen more than in JavaScript. And so whenever you approach one of these new frameworks,
you're new to it. It's like, yeah, sure. You know the underlying language or the underlying
technology, but the way you have to think about how you build applications is different. React
famously always says that React is just JavaScript. And to some extent, that's true. But it's not
100% true because while the underlying language is just JavaScript, there's a specific way of
thinking when you write in React that is not necessarily how you would approach something if
you were writing without React. So those aspects of React, you can be a really good JavaScript
programmer, but still find it challenging because now you have to adopt this different approach.
I know for myself, for the longest time, it felt so weird to put it on click on an element because
I've always learned that you separate concerns, and that's not how you do it. You do a document
or query selector to get the element, and then you do element.addEventListener. You don't go on
the HTML element and put an on click there. It's not the way to do it. But the reason you do that
in React is it's idiomatic, and it's actually stripped away back into it, addEventListeners,
into addEventListeners by Babel or whichever transpiler you're using. So at the end of the day,
it does end up being an addEventListener. It's just the way you write it is different.
State management, it's something that's very unique. It's now unique to a lot of frameworks,
but React introduced this whole idea of UI being a representation of application state. Again,
that's a new way of thinking of stuff. And I sometimes find it hard again when I move back
and I just write something in plain JavaScript, then I miss this used state thing. It's like,
oh, how do I do this now without having that used state hook? You're constantly going between these
worlds, and as you move between these technologies and frameworks and things, you're constantly an
early stage person at something. So I think we need to even be okay with using the word beginner,
but for now, let's use a different nomenclature just so that we can break down the stigmas there.
It's very interesting that you've gone mechanical engineering, then you went into
law, and then you decided to go back into more of an engineering kind of thing.
Is it just that you've felt the previous industries or segments or whatever we want to call it,
did you just find that the connection that you thought was there didn't last,
and you kind of feel disconnected from this world?
Exactly. And I have a deep fear that I learned to deal with, that is that I would
end up jumping from thing to thing all my life. And actually, there are more areas that I explored
before going to mechanical engineering, but that was in my early adult life, the first one that was
like a profession. And it's actually a good question you asked because that has a lot to do
with my view for technology now. Because when I started in mechanical engineering,
one thing I always liked was to solve problems. And back in the day, it was most like physics
or maths problems. And this was the most topics I used to study, so I chose mechanical engineering
for it because I would see a lot of them more in the university. And I really liked the calculus
courses, but nowadays I don't know why I like it so much because it's like Greek to me. But
in that period, I kind of felt that most of my colleagues just thought about the technical
aspect of things. They don't discuss it, ethical problems, they don't discuss it,
the impacts of the solutions they were thinking in the world. In that, I was feeling out of the...
I didn't have identification with people. I liked to study the courses, but I didn't have
the identification with the profession. So I kind of had a course on ethics and legislation
on mechanical engineering, and then I decided to move to law. And I began law with another passion
because I liked the philosophy of law, I liked discussing ethical issues. I took part in a lot
of groups in the university. It was a very great moment for me because it was very effervescent.
But when I entered the profession to see after I graduated, I started to realize I have a lot of
idealizations of the field. And it's nothing like what we would expect. I actually have been very
lucky to have worked in a position where I could deliver justice and I could make an impact on
someone's life, like someone that is innocent and I reverted that decision. And that kept me going,
but I always felt I missed it more because it was like swimming against the current. And one thing
I realized since I started studying tech is that there is a lot of people thinking about these
ethical issues. And that was one major thing that made me stick around my student network. It was
your vision. There is not just learning to code. It's like your purpose or your role in the society,
in the world and everything. And this week I was talking to a friend that is learning
web development in the same course I'm taking. And she lives in Europe and she is migrating
fields too, but she came from a 20-year career as an actress. So it's very different worlds.
And one thing that caught my eye is because I asked her, have you decided
what you do want in the future in the long run? And I really, I confess, I really expected her
to say, oh, I want to stick with web development. I want to learn Ruby or I don't know. Or I want
to be on the front end, on the back end. And she answered me. And that was very curious. She
answered me, I want to work with something like global warming or environment. And that was a
really interesting thing because she, I have this kind of thoughts, but I'm so used to not discussing
this with people. But she was thinking way ahead. She wants, and I wanted to have purpose with what
I'm doing. It's not like just, oh, I want to have a good pay rate. I want to earn in dollar and
everything. And that's sad because it's what I always see people talking about, but they don't
like discuss where do I want to work, where this company might be doing, where the impact I expect
to be part of. So I guess we kind of need this kind of talks a lot more. And although I have
been seeing a lot of conference that approach something that touches these issues,
like we had, like the code length was very, very cool. And I was just today on the OctoGato
conference by GitHub, and they are talking about this too. But I really have this, the feeling that
we are a minority yet. So we really need to empower these voices. And it's very, it's kind of
problematic for us, like white guys, males, and everything. But I guess our role is to like
support these people. And I'm like, planning to go to our first world country and everything. But
it's crazy. I am a white male guy, but when I arrived there, they see me as Latin American.
And that's not a concept we have here in Brazil. And so it's kind of interesting to
like think of, think globally, all the issues, like your identity, your citizenship.
And I really like doing this. So I really hope that I'm really enjoying learning to code.
But I really hope that I end up in the long run, not just like sitting from the computer and calling
anything they taught me. They said to me, I really hope that I have like a purpose of what I'm doing.
It's that what I was searching in the law field. And that is what I'm searching in the tech field too.
Yeah, that makes sense. I can totally see that connection. I think,
what is it that I was thinking? Journalism. I think a lot of people go into journalism for
the same reasons. They believe that through journalistic means, they can have an impact
on the world. And then I think a lot of them also get demotivated when they get into,
they work for the wrong place. And they find out that it's actually just regurgitating things that
has been served to them. It's not making a difference. That's why I think publications
like ProPublica, those people are so, so important. Because they are truly focused on
bringing the truth to us. I mean, it's for us to decide what to do with that, right? But I don't
think we should, I don't like the idea of being constantly having to second guess everything I
hear. It's something that frustrates me a lot. It's like, rather just be open and tell the truth.
And then I can make up my mind what I want to do with that. Do I accept it? Do I want to push
back against it? Or what do I want to do? But don't feed me lies because then later on, what do you do?
You get so, I don't know, demoralized that you kind of just ignore everything and you get this
pessimistic view about the world. I was thinking about it yesterday, like, there's a lot of
negativity around the internet going on at the moment. And I think it's not unfounded.
I think it's important that these things are being talked about. But I think there's a lot
more on the internet that is good than these negative things. And I think, again, the negative
thing is being made, it's being brought to the fore a lot more than it should be. I don't want
us to live with blinders on and pretend that everything is great, but it's important to touch
on these issues. And I mean, one of the reasons I have these conversations with people, and I am
open to speaking with anybody from anywhere. And especially, I kind of actually specifically focus
on elevating people's voices that normally don't get heard, is because these are the stories we
need to hear. Because this is the truth. These are people that, they're not sharing an opinion,
they're sharing a lived experience. And I think there's that famous quote that says, if you
talk from experience, nobody can disregard it, because your experience is your experience. And
nobody can say it's wrong. Like, no, it's my experience, it can't be wrong. Because I've
already, with the few recordings that I've done, I've already had that exact thing happen where I
spoke to a woman early in tech, but in the United States. And her experience is vastly different
from Pamela that I spoke to recently, who's from Mexico. She now lives in the US, but she's still
facing challenges in the US with visa and stuff like that. So her experience getting into tech
was completely different to the other person. And I think it's important to hear these
differences and find, and I think that's the other idea behind mycelium, is to connect these worlds
to each other, so that we understand that our lived experience is not necessarily another person's
lived experience. And so that we can be more compassionate toward each other, and sometimes
not be so quick to want to, I don't know, defend our opinion, or what we think is right, that we're
more open to listening, and just being compassionate and being there for somebody when they struggle.
I think the thing that Riku, for example, has brought up is he's always scared to make a comment
on the mycelium, because he's scared it's a stupid question, and then he looks, and those are the
walls that we need to break down. There's nothing like that. The fact that you asked, I mean,
Peter, that I spoke to in one of these, in one of the previous podcasts, he said that it's actually
a good thing when you ask these questions that some people might think is a stupid question,
because more often than not, there's other people in the room that are afraid to ask that question
by you showing a weakness, or you, like he says, taking a punch in the face. You're giving the
other people the answer that they actually wanted to hear. So sometimes you have to just stand up
and ask the question and not care. If it's a stupid question, so be it. There might be 10 other
people in the room that also didn't know, and now all of them know, and I took a little bit of a
punch to my ego, but I'll get over it. So I think that's very important. But I'm quite interested
in this nomad life that you have talked about, because that is kind of something that I'm also,
it's also a dream, it's something I'm working towards as well. So I think I've asked this
question in many different ways. In the beginning, I asked people, would you rather start your own
business or work for a company? But then I kind of rephrased it and rephrased it. And what it's
boiled down to me in the end is, what does success look like for you? And I think you have a unique
perspective with the nomadic life that you see. So in this tech world, in this new world that
you're exploring, the new country you're moving to, what does success look like for you?
Well, deep question. But I guess I'm not very ambitious in the normal, the common sense.
I don't, me and my wife, we are very alike. We never been like chasing
in our big purchases or consuming a lot of things. And what we always were eager to is to
get in contact with different cultures and having real life experiences that
makes us want to, oh, it makes us expand our horizons. So we like to travel a lot. We haven't
done that too much in the past years, not at all. But we like to travel so much, not because
because we don't travel to buy things or to, we don't like the tourist spots. We like to go off
the beaten track. We like to see how people live. We like to connect with people like randomly.
Like the first time I was in Canada, it was like 10 years ago. And I was in Toronto for 20 days.
And one of the best days on my trip was this particular day when I was exploring the
Herborfront, like the lakeshore. And I saw this guy that lived on the streets. He had like a
a market car with a lot of stuff. And he looks just like Santa. He was a very big, big white bird.
And we started talking and he started like telling how he got there and why he wants to live in the
street because it was an option. He offered me food. We ate together. He had like a lot of snacks.
And we, it was autumn. So for me, it was very cold, but it was warm for them. And as the day goes
long, I started to feel very chilly. And then I realized we've been talking like five, six hours.
And it was like this incredible experience to really just pass time with someone and really
connect in a deep level. So that's something I always wanted to do, I always like to do.
And this Digital Nomad dream that I have is not to be running around all year long in a lot of
places in a hurry. It's just like living in the city for some time, see how people live, see,
know some different people and then like move on and live somewhere, see for a couple of months
or six months or a year. Just don't be tamed to a particular place. Just be more without roots.
Just be more of the world. So we really envision this like very far on our lives,
maybe earlier than we think. But I know it's really hard to create some stability to have this
and to not be depending on a regular paycheck and everything. So we are slowly building towards this.
I don't know if I ever like be an entrepreneur, but I guess it's something that maybe happens
someday. But either way, what I like, what I want to work with, it's just something that has
a kind of purpose, that helps people. It can be like the slightest way, it can be just
a little help for someone, but I really need this human side of things. That's why I came to miss
a lot of my works. Back in the first years, I used to talk to a lot of people, like people that have
processes in the justice, and I was hearing the pledge and everything. But as I grew in the career,
I've been more and more disconnected from the face-to-face and more in the work. So that's
something I really miss, is to talk to people, to hear the problems, to kind of offer a solution.
This is, my wife says, a good thing about me and a bad thing, because anyone that came to me
with a problem, I can't stop thinking about it. It's my first reaction to think of a solution,
and this can be really annoying sometimes, but it's just my nature. A lot of times I start wasting
my time with other people's problems just because I'm curious. I can't stand having a problem and
not having a clue what to do with it, so it's really something that I learn to live with,
but sometimes it makes me waste a lot of time. That's what we see in the Lambron,
right? Not being in one place for our lives. We want to have the flexibility.
It can happen that we live for 10 years in one particular spot, but I like to have the option.
I like to have the freedom to, if I want it, restart in some place new. So this is what I'm
wanting to experiment in Canada, restarting my life, and this is what I'm wanting to be
used to, having this ability to restart every time I feel the need to. I don't like to be
in one place or in one job. I don't like this feeling, so I want to be more lightweight. I want
to travel light, so that's more about it. That sounds like a great plan. I agree. For me also,
I've had the conversation with people before. I don't mind it when people say
they necessarily… when there's laws or when there's regulations and certain ways to do things.
I think that's important. That's why the miscellaneous network as a code of conduct,
I think these things are important. But what I don't like is when people take options away from
me. That is something I don't like. Don't try and pigeonhole me. Don't try and put me in a box
and expect me to be happy, because the box that you put me in is not necessarily the one that I
feel comfortable in. And not having the option to try a different box, that's what I don't like.
I might conform to certain rules and practices and stuff like that, but it should be on my terms
and stuff that has meaning and value to me, not something that somebody else has decided for me.
And I think there's quite a lot of quotes and things that relates to that. If you don't create
your own life, somebody else will create it for you. So we need to be careful that we don't bow
down to other people's hopes and dreams for us. We have to have our own and not be scared to have
our own. I think it's human. All of us want freedom. I can't imagine there's one person in
the world that says, no, I don't care for freedom. I think we all want freedom. And when our freedom
is impeached, I think that is when people get angry. And understandably so. Some people
don't handle their anger very well, and they use it in a destructive way.
I'd prefer to guide us towards using our anger in constructive ways, in ways that we can lift
each other up, not destroy things. I always see these things where people are unhappy with
something with their education they're getting from their schools. And yes, you should be angry
about that. You should say, I don't like this. I feel I have a right to a better education.
But then burning down the school doesn't help. That is not the way you should channel that anger.
You should channel it in a different way. Find a constructive way that you're building up,
not breaking down. Because otherwise we're constantly going back to square one,
and we have to start over. And so we're never progressing as a society, as humanity. We're
always just recreating the wheel over and over again. And yeah, that's no good.
And talking about the individual side of it,
one interesting thing that I think I like, and I see this, I guess, in your lifestyle,
is that you do a lot of different things. I recently discovered just today that you play
classical guitar. And so it's something that I used to do a lot growing up. I was a biker,
I was a psycho activist, I liked to photograph. I was in a group of photographers, and I did a
lot of stuff. And then we are growing up, and then we are working so much, and we are being demanded
so much that life starts to resume to work. So that's another kind of freedom that I want
to have, to have free time. I heard this a lot when we talk about Canada, is the work-life balance.
They talk about this a lot. And it's not like a concept we have in Brazil. It's almost
the other way around. We like praise overworking, praise the workaholic. So it's very toxic, and
it's kind of what led me to just focus on work for quite a long time. And then I started to
feel the need to have more of life. And that's something I really want to do, and that's something
I've really been feeling welcome to do. The other day you talked about the social network called
Bollywood. And I really liked the idea, because there's a lot of things I like to do, and there's
a lot of things I do well. So I don't want to go from the lawyer box to the developer box. I don't
want to have boxes. I want to have a lot of different activities I have interesting. So
I really cherish that we are having this kind of space where you have value because you are
complex. You like different things. You like to talk about a lot of things. You don't
have the right topic to talk about, or this is so much of a topic. You can talk about this here.
You always have some space. You just have to organize it so everyone that wants to talk about
it finds each other and everything. And I really, when I listened to the podcast with Rico, I
had a lot of identification with this issue to put yourself in public and to speak in public.
And I grew up as a very shy person, and I just started to speak. I spoke in public the first time
when I was 24 years. And for five years, I always felt really bad. Every time I wanted to speak in
public, I almost passed away. So it was very difficult. But with time, you start to get used
to it. And nowadays, I just speak my mind. I don't, I try at my best not to refrain from saying
something. I want to speak my mind if I'm speaking something that's garbage. Someone says garbage
very politely, I hope. And we are going to continue to keep the discussion going. So I might be wrong
about something, and the conversation flows. I don't have this fear of being wrong. You don't
have to have this concern. You are in this position, and a week from now, you can be
thinking entirely different about something. That's the beauty of connecting and discussing
and everything. And that is true for life, that's true for these ethical issues we're facing,
that's true for our coding problems too. Because a lot of times, somebody asks a question, and
our guys have just the perfect solution. But it's not a done job. Someone can be
like, come up with a better solution, a more performative solution. So things are always
reinventing themselves, and we can't expect to have the right answers for everything. We have
the answer to that service now, and we have to keep talking about it because things are
in constant change. And on the topic of polywork, I really like it. I heard about polywork really
early on, and I joined it because it was like, I don't know, I think it's maybe a tech thing,
like you always want to try the new thing. It's like, let me see what this is. So I signed up
early on, and I was on there, but I wasn't really using it for much. I kind of forgot about it for
a while. And then when I was thinking about this podcast, I was like, wait a minute, I wonder if
polywork can help me find some folks. And I kind of tried it out, and the response was incredible.
There's so many people still that I have on a list to go back to who's interested in doing this.
It's mind-blowing. But then the founder of polywork recorded a little short video that he put on
the Polywork YouTube channel, and he actually defined what the idea behind polywork is.
And then it clicked for me. It was like, oh, this is exactly the place I want to be. It's about
this idea of you aren't defined by your job. You are multifaceted. You like and do many things,
and you change your mind from time to time, or constantly change your mind.
And that connected me to another thing that I heard. I heard a TED talk from a woman that talked
about being a multi-potentialite, because they always talk about this thing. You have so much
potential, and you have to focus in this specific area. And she was like, but she can't do that.
She has so many interests that she can't just focus on one thing. And like introverts,
being an introvert is a superpower. There's people that talk about that as well.
The same thing. And she said, actually, what she calls it is being a multi-potentialite.
I'll link up the TED talk in the show notes. It's a really, really great talk.
And I think there's a lot of us that's like that. We're introverted like me. I'm a super shy person,
but I somehow keep putting myself in these very public situations, like to pick up a guitar,
and to go and play in front of people. I mean, I was in a band where I played in front of people.
I played solo guitar in front of people. And it was nerve-racking. I mean, I've spoken at
conferences. I was in Venezuela once, where I spoke at a Ruby conference about Firefox
OAS back in the day. I kept putting myself in these situations. The interesting thing is,
even though it might seem like the weirdest thing for me to do, I kind of feel that in the moment,
I really, really feel good. It's energizing. And it gives me this boost of confidence that I just
want to do more. And so I think we need to be careful to not avoid things that makes us feel
uncomfortable. I think sometimes, just push yourself a little bit out of your comfort zone,
and you'll find that you actually enjoy being uncomfortable. And I think that's
important. And a very, very common thing for us to do, and I know I'm very guilty of it,
is to confuse excitement with anxiety. Because I feel very similar in the body. The emotions and
things you go through are very, very similar. And me being somebody that is an anxious person,
and I do have generalized anxiety disorder, I definitely confuse the two a lot of times.
So often, putting myself in an uncomfortable situation forces me to feel those emotions.
And then over years and years and years, you kind of learn to identify, no, this is not anxiety,
this is excitement. You should really feel these feelings and internalize them, because it's good.
This is where you get your energy from. So yeah, I think we shouldn't...
It makes you feel alive.
Exactly, exactly. Yeah. So I think we should... And totally, there's times when you need to
step back and say, that's enough for now, because it is tiring. It is tiring. If you're an introvert,
and you are shy, and you find it... To put yourself out there, it's stressful, and stress makes you
tired. So sometimes you need to step back and be in a comforted place. You need a place where you
feel at home, where you feel safe. I think the way you speak about your wife, I'm sure she is your
safe place. So I think whenever you feel overwhelmed, she's the person you can go to who
can listen and understand and be compassionate. I also, with my wife, with my kids, it's somewhere
where I can go where I know I'm not going to be judged, or where I can show my weakness without
being scared. And I think we should... These communities should open these opportunities
for us as well, to feel a bit more, be a bit more vulnerable, and not be too concerned about it.
So jumping back to more like the tech world, being from Brazil, and how do you find the tech
industry in Brazil? Is there things there that you find that really it needs a lot of work?
Or is it actually not what most people will think? Is it actually a very thriving, healthy industry?
Not a healthy industry. But it's hard to say because I kind of don't know too much about the
global tech industry. But what I'm more familiar with is the... That's because I'm like studying
a lot and learning, and then I'm exploring a lot of communities, and I'm talking to a lot of people
that are in the same position. And I'm more familiar with this. It's like, how do you start
in the industry? I had some great talks with senior developers, but mostly people that are
in the region areas, or that are just starting, like young adults starting in tech. And one thing
that really gets me is that I don't know if it is just in Brazil, or it's like a global thing,
but people don't value the university here. And it's very crazy because in other fields it's not
a phenomenon like that. But in tech you have like this massive advertisement of boot camps
and online courses that promises that you will be earning a great paycheck in like six months,
or eight months. And it's a very unreal expectation. And a lot of people don't have
like the sense to separate information from merchandising. So I've met with a lot of people
that got into debt to start a boot camp, or like left his job and don't have a plan, like for
two, three, four or five years. They have a plan for six months, and it's very unreal that he will
be like earning something better than his previous bro. So I have a, I could say, like a successful
career in law. I earn a good money for what I do. I have like colleagues that have two kids,
and it's been doing what I do for 20 years, and that's okay for them. But for me it has to be
something more. So I kind of came up with this plan. It's a medium to, it's a plan for the long
run. It's not like how I want to change everything in six months, I will be earning more than I earn
today. But I met a lot of people that really thinks this. And sometimes if you don't have
the time or the chance to do a university, like it's not possible for me and my plans to like
take four or five years and do a regular bachelor degree in computer science. I really wish that
I had this option, or I really wish that I did that years ago, but now it's not a possibility.
But what gets me, it's like people with 18, 19 years old that can do a university have parents
that will support them through university, and they still want to do a boot camp of six months
to get into tech, and they expect that they will earn like high salaries and they will be
recruited with two overseas companies, and that's not real. So that saddens me a lot because
this kind of thinking, it's very like I want to earn money immediately. I don't care about
who I will work for. I don't care about anything. I just want this now. And it's very hard to like
convince people that you should take your time. You should build like a really strong foundation.
It may be get a first opportunity in tech, but it can't leave you far. It can't, you won't go far
with just this like basic classes and everything. So it takes, people don't realize it takes some
time to build a career. It takes some time to invest in projects. I really like your approach
with projects. I have talked to you about it, that you always plan for escalating. You start a little
project and you post the issues and you like do everything. I would expect to find in a really big
project that has like 40 people working on. And that's really a long time thinking, a long run
thinking, because you have to have this approach since the beginning. And a lot of people,
especially here in Brazil, think that they can build a portfolio like just doing code challenges
and replicating interfaces and cloning websites. And that is good. That can lend you a first
opportunity. But you are putting not so much on the table. You are making it in you or you are
doing a new approach of something. So when I don't have like any project I'm proud about right now,
but I have a lot of ideas and I have a lot of planning going. And I know like sometime in the
future I will have something good going on. And maybe that can be like something that will help
another one or another developer would pick that and go further. So I really like this idea. And
that's another thing that really got me into tech really hard is open sourcing. And I really like
to be part of something bigger than me. And so I kind of don't, I can't get my mind to waste time
doing just little projects and repetitive tasks. But I have a lot of ideas going on that I want to
put on the paper and then on the code. So I guess this is something that I have, I think it has to
be, it has to change. Like I can see these people with this mentality going to meet an impact. It's
not like I'm not rooting for them. But I want them to understand that it's not supposed to be
this easy. So it's like, it's really obvious that it's a lie that anyone can get a job with six
figures in six months. I think it's really interesting to state that coding is for anyone
that want it. Anyone can learn how to code. That is not the same thing to say anyone can learn how
to code in three months and have like a bigger salary. It's different things. So it's possible
for everyone, but it's a long road to follow. It's hard. It's not supposed to be easy.
In Brazil, we have this phenomenon where the global market in IT is very
hit up. So a lot of developers from Brazil are getting recruited overseas. That's what
happened to my brother. So a lot of companies here in Brazil are recruiting other developers
from Latin America. So it's like the talents are going to the first world countries and we are
outsourcing other least developed countries. So people have this feeling that anyone can join
to tech right now and his life will change drastically. But I can't see that way. For me,
it feels like it's a very long road. You have to build up step by step, day by day. You have to
have discipline. You have to have focus. You have to have consistency. So what I see happening
a lot is people starting these courses or starting university and then getting frustrated.
Frustrated and then they gave up everything because their expectations were too high.
But if they just stick with it for a little bit and they have just planned a little bit well,
they could find their way to tech. But the information, it's not like sexy to say,
oh, it's hard. You won't find jobs so easily. You have to build a lot of skills and everything. So
people fall for the advertising. And this is a very big issue here in Brazil. And we have a lot
of discussion about this because a lot of people are going to tech for accountants, actresses,
lawyers. Everyone is going to tech and everyone is getting frustrated. So we have to put our feet
on the ground and we have to like, is this a thing I really want to do or is this just a way to
earn more money? Because it's not a problem if you want to earn more money. But you have a lot of
options to do this. It's not just tech. So you can find something more suitable for your expectations
or for your time schedule. But people want like an easy solution for everything. And this is very
Brazilian culture. So it's very hard to reason with people. So I have a lot of talks with another
fellow, early stage developers. And I'm always the guy that's very boring and annoying that says,
it's not like that. Like take a step back, take a deep breath. I plan it very well. You have to
know how you will support yourself through this migration. And you have a lot of people changing
careers. So you have to plan this very well. A lot of them have children to support. A lot of them
have another, have mortgages, have a lot of things to put into their accountants. And like
it's not that easy. It's not guaranteed for anyone. You can be like a genius. And it's something like
there is a lot of people that don't go to university and like learn by themselves, trying and failing
and trying again. But they are the exception. You should prefer the easy solution. But it's
the easiest path. It's like have good teachers, have good mentors and like build it slowly and
build it strongly. But people always pick the exception and want to be the rule.
I start with the premise that I'm not a genius and I'm not a very lucky guy. So I have to
put my children on the ground, put one foot in front of the other and start building very slowly.
But I know I can go really far with this, if it's something I want to do. And when I was in
university, I had this teacher of philosophy that I was in the last class he taught. He was
going to retirement. So he ended the class with a very interesting poem. Maybe I don't remember
the name of the author now. I think he is Spanish. I don't know. But I will send you after. But he
has like this really illustrations. It's like there is no paths. He paints life as you are on
a boat and you can go to anywhere in the horizon. There is no track to follow. You have to just
find where you want to go. You have to find the direction and you have to go and discover what is
it. You don't have like a trail to follow. So this idea is makes me, made me change a lot of
assumptions I had when I was growing up. And I was entering my profession. So it stuck with me.
Like this idea that you can go anywhere else, but it's our responsibility. You are defining the path.
There is no previous path for you to follow. And sometimes people want to have a path.
And sometimes people want to have, want so much to have a previous path that is guaranteed success,
but it simply don't exist. If you follow the steps of another person, it's not guaranteed that you
end up with the same result. You have a lot of factors that come into place. So you have to
accept this and learn to deal with this. So it's like an approach to life. And I have this approach
to development too. I want to, I want to take my time. I want to explore different technologies,
different tools. And I want to build my own path into technology and find the things that make sense
to me and not just follow someone that says, Oh, this is what I did. And now I am this. You have to
and pay me something and I will, and I will teach you how to get there. I don't believe in this.
And I, I don't, I'm not afraid like to spending money to, because I sense that we have to value
the other people's time. But I always take this as just another resource. What I was going to do
with it. It's my responsibility. It's not like a given thing. Yeah, no, I agree. And I don't think
it's just in Brazil. I've heard the same thing about the boot camps a lot. Like, I mean, it's
happening in South Africa. Also the thing that you said, where people are contracted out from
European countries, contracting people and they're leaving Brazil. It's a common thing in South
Africa as well. People kind of get started here and then they leave the country and they go work
in Europe or they go work in the United States. And one of the problems with that is, is products
and ideas and companies and things that started here. They don't have those people with long term
experience. They don't have those. They have a lot of junior people building, building the software.
It's the same here. Yeah. So they're missing the guidance from more senior people who can think
long term because they've been through this process before and they can say, well, this looks like a
good idea right now, but it's going to blow up in your face tomorrow or the day after. Because
today our website has 10 people coming to it, but we don't know what's going to happen a month down
the line. And this is not going to be sustainable. Like this is not maintainable or whatever the case
may be. So it's not uncommon. I think it's very common. And obviously social media and all of that
has played a role in this. It's created this culture of instant gratification. And so people
don't want to wait. And I think that's why a lot of people get frustrated because like you said,
there's unrealistic promises being made. And then when it doesn't go the way that it's been
advertised and people think like, oh, this is just nonsense. The whole industry is broken. And it's
not that. I think it's part of it that is broken and that we need to change how people sell these
things. We need to be realistic. We need to say that it could work for you. You could go to a
bootcamp, do six months, learn React and get a job and be on your way. And you can be happy with that,
but it's not a guarantee. So never, never take it as a guarantee. So I can hear that you like to
plan long-term and that you think not just for today and tomorrow, but you kind of think long-term.
Has there been any books, resources, people, anything like that in your life that has
that has helped you with that? Or is this just something that's just natural for you?
I don't know. That's an interesting question because
actually, I think when I was raising up, I was taught to avoid risks a lot.
But my mother, I think she has this approach of life. Get somewhere safe and be there and like
build your home there and don't leave there for anything. So I always been afraid to take risks.
And, but I couldn't be satisfied with what I had. So I had to take risks at some time in my life.
So for doing that, I had to plan. Otherwise, I won't stand the anxiety. But I know there's a lot
of people that are more spontaneous or impulsive and just go and do it. And I can't, I couldn't do
that. And my wife is very much alike. We planned a lot because we have this assumption that
if anything could go wrong, it would go wrong with us. But that doesn't prevent us from doing
things. Just, I guess a lot of times we feel pessimistic, but I like to think that we are
realistic or like trying to approach that. But we planned a lot, but we don't let this fear or this,
we don't let it paralyze us. So planning is like our defense mechanism to not having control of
everything. So we have to accept that you don't have control. So if you, if you know about
something that could go wrong, make a plan for it. If that happens, you know what to do, but don't
freak about it. So it's, I kind of take this for everything in my life. And I learned a lot
with investments because you can control what will happen to the world. You can control what
happened to price and everything. So you have to make a plan, stick with the plan and like
believe in it. So you can be all the time reacting to what the world presents to you. So I guess
when we started, like after we married and we started, we started thinking about our plans for
life and start like saving up money and have to organize it. And we start thinking about it and
invest in money to make these plans come true. We kind of learned a lot with it to learn to accept
you have no control over what will happen in your country, in the world. It can be a war, a pandemic.
I like to say to my eyes, I would never thought I would live through a pandemic in my life.
But when the pandemic hits, we didn't get desperate. We had like a very, we had, we knew
what to do. Like we just take a deep breath and like rearrange our planning. Like I sold my motorcycle.
I started working from home and everything. So we always like to have options and this come out
like planning, but it's not like we are too concerned about the long run that this stop us
from going further. But I really like to think that you should have at least a minimum concern
what will happen in the long run, because otherwise you will get, like I said, you get surprised by
the things that if you really thought about it, it was kind of obvious it could happen.
It's not necessarily will happen, but it could happen. So I always like to have a plan in place,
but it's not like an anxious thing to me. It's like I'm defense mechanism too anxious. So I
don't feel anxious because I know that I can deal with things. I've been through a lot of surprises
in my life and I passed through it. So it's just be another one. So it will, it will be okay.
So yeah, that's a good approach to life. And I think that long-term thinking and that planning
for things that could potentially go wrong, I think that's going to help you a lot when you,
when you code as well, because I think it's something that we do, you know, those statements
to say, if this thing is present, then add an event listener to it. Don't just assume it will
be on the page because it might not be there. And then it's like, oops, your code is broken.
So I think that's going to help you in your code as well. I hope so. Rafaela, this has been lovely.
I'm so glad that we could finally connect. It was a really good conversation. In closing,
is there anything that you would like to leave the audience with? Any thoughts, any words of inspiration,
anything? Maybe speaking of perspective of a beginner, I really, something I struggle a lot
is the amount of information, the fear of missing out. And there's a lot of things that are
constantly getting to our attention. And I, when I started, that made me real anxious. And I really
started to develop coping mechanisms to this. And what helped me, it was to speak to people. So
I spoke with a lot of people. I spoke with people more mature than me. I spoke with
younger people than me. And we started realizing that everyone feels like some kind of
feels like something similar. And a lot of times in their lives, like every time you have a new job,
you move into a new home, you have a new kid, every this, this kind of steps, like
change everything in your life, you have to adapt to it. So it's the same thing as coding,
as learning a new skill. So we are always like going to, we always felt like imposters.
And then sometimes we felt like, oh, I got this, this is so easy. And then we start to realize,
no, it's not that easy. It's really more difficult than I thought. So it's common to see
this thing happen to a lot of people in a lot of stages in their professional lives. So this is
like what's most important about communities, like connecting with people, exchanging thoughts,
exchanging ideas and exchanging experiences. And that helped me like be really calm about my journey
in coding, because on the first months, couple of months, I was really freaking out. Oh my God,
I don't think I can do this. I see a lot of things I want to do with this, but I don't think if I'm
able to learn how to get there. And then I started realizing a lot of people feel the same way. A lot
of people felt the same way when they are starting. So this human connection is, I think, crucial to
having this. And that's something a lot of us missed, a lot of us lost on the distance learning.
So it's hard to connect with people when you are like in the same class, you have like lunchtime,
you like chit chat and everything, you like start to connect it, even if you didn't mean to. But on
the internet, you have to have this purpose, you have to do with this intent. You have to reach out
to people, you don't have to be ashamed of not knowing what you are doing or spoking the wrong
thing. You should at least look for people that are more welcome. But you probably will find a lot
of people willing to help you. And that's been my experience and that's been what made me persevere
in my studies. And I think it will be like that for all my life because one thing I realized that
I will never stop having something to study. The technology changes really fast. So you must
like just get used to be a beginner for life. And have this approach and connect with people
that are beginning that field too and that technology and that stack and just go with it.
Go with it. Yeah. I think that's great advice. Thanks so much, Raphael, again. Thank you for having
me. It was a real pleasure finally meeting you. Yeah, for sure. And we'll keep on
conversating on the My Senior Network Discord and I'll be following your career and seeing how things
work out for you. I'm really looking forward to see what you do with everything.
Thank you for listening to this episode of the My Senior Network Podcast. If you're not already,
please subscribe, star and leave a review for us in your podcatcher of choice. This helps others
find us and helps us make a better podcast for you on this course. You can also find and follow us on
Twitter at Network My Senior and join the community on Discord. All the links are available in the
show notes.
