Welcome to the Mycelium Network Podcast, a podcast all about early-stage web developers
and the mentors and teachers that help them along the way.
Welcome, Andreas, to the Mycelium Network Podcast.
Thanks for having me.
I'm super excited.
It's a huge pleasure.
It's been a long time in the making.
We've discussed and gone back and forth and back and forth over polywork, and finally
we found a day in time that works for everybody, so I'm glad.
We have business trips, am I right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, and then the holidays and everything.
To start off with, can you tell us – I know you mentioned before we started that this
is probably the most uncomfortable question of the bunch, so let's get that one out
of the way.
If you can tell us a little bit about who you are, your career, and then what gets you
up in the morning.
Yeah.
I'm Andreas.
I'm a software engineer.
Currently, I'm a R&D software developer at Encompass Technologies.
Basically it's an alcoholic beverage software as a service where essentially we help all
three tiers of the U.S. alcohol distribution system, so whether that's people who make
beer, people who distribute beer, and then people who sell beer, and obviously other
wines, spirits, etc.
I handle a lot of integrations with a database called DSD-Link where it's got global product
data, global customer data throughout the entire Encompass network, so then as we get
more partners and stuff like that on, I usually handle a lot of the integrations and stuff
like that.
In terms of outside of work, I've been doing programming software development for
about four or five years now.
When I'm not programming and stuff, I love Dungeons and Dragons.
I play around with some tarot every now and then, and then also tattoos and home brewing
mead actually.
In general, I just like to jump around to a whole bunch of different hobbies.
My partner keeps me plenty busy.
She's like, oh, this is a great idea.
We should go and try this, and I'm like, yeah, sure, yeah, sure, let's do it.
Kind of like all over the place, but those are the main things that I usually am found
doing.
That sounds great.
Can you explain a bit about what mead is and what the brewing process involves?
With mead, a lot of people like to equate it to honey wine, so essentially the main
primary ingredient that you're fermenting is honey, and the yeast consume that honey.
Usually there's a couple steps where you go through primary fermentation and then you
rack it into a separate container and secondary fermentation.
Essentially all you're doing is having the yeast consume those different sugars, and
with honey it creates a unique flavor that my partner and I really like, where it's
a little bit sweeter and it's more depending on the type of honey that you use and type
of yeast, it will likely be a lot closer to a white wine, like a sweeter, maybe like a
Pinot Grigio.
In general, it's been a lot of fun.
We've done a whole bunch of different small batches of like a gallon, one of the ones
that we're really proud of is one that we call the May Queen, which is basically like
blood oranges, lemon zest, vanilla, and a couple more other flavors with some really
high quality alpine honey from up here in Colorado.
You'd be surprised how much good honey makes a difference.
If you just go to the supermarket and drop honey that you pick up at the supermarket,
obviously that will get you there, but we like to do smaller batches with higher quality
ingredients and generally we just do it for ourselves and a couple of family members.
It's a lot of fun to just be able to experiment with the different ingredients and see how
the yeast takes it and creates these different flavors.
Yeah, it's super cool.
Honey, it makes a big difference if you get the real stuff, not the mix, the half and
half that you often get at the supermarket.
We have a little honey company about 10 kilometers from where I stay and when we buy honey from
them, you immediately notice the difference.
I can use that in my coffee and it tastes great, whereas if you use the honey from the
supermarket, it's like, I'm not too sure about this.
It's doubly so with me because the yeast take on a lot of those flavors or off flavors as
well.
If they don't have as much real sugars and stuff to consume, it's a lot harder for them
to make a flavor that is actually pleasant.
There's a lot of different variables that go into, obviously with brewing in general,
you could create some off flavors with certain ingredients.
It's just a huge balancing act, but to your point on the coffee and stuff, you can immediately
tell the difference.
Yeah, for sure.
That's fascinating.
Yeah, I can imagine how that can become a really interesting hobby.
It leads into my second question that I kind of had because I picked this up when I write
some stuff in your, I can't remember if it was Lictin or if it was Polywork, where you're
clearly enthusiastic about beer, I think specifically, but maybe other alcohol variants as well.
More than that, this idea that it brings people together, it forms community.
I'm curious, the MyCMNitric podcast is part of a larger community around early stage developers.
Obviously, community is very important to us and to me.
I wonder, what gets you excited about community?
Why are you so excited about this whole idea of beer and then the beer forming this community
bringing people together?
What is it about that stuff that makes you excited?
Yeah, so I will say a lot of that has been kind of my exposure to the beverage industry
with Encompass, which I'm really appreciative of because it really opened my eyes to just
how much work goes behind the scenes to get a beer on your table or a wine or whatever
the case may be, the amount of work and the amount of talent that goes into it to get
a beer into the distributor and then go from the distributor to the retailer and then be
able to sell that to you.
There's a lot of work behind the scenes that goes into it and all of that is people who
are extremely talented, extremely passionate about the beer, well, the beverages that they
sell.
It's the same beer, but realistically, it's so much more than that and really the more
I got exposed to it, the more I realized just how much of it is community really.
Whether you are making beer, distributing beer or selling it, there is a community that
kind of revolves around it.
There's so many different little neighborhoods and even just in the United States, but worldwide
where there's a liquor store somewhere in that community and that whenever there's
a party, there's something like that, usually you're going and grabbing beer, you're going
and grabbing some wine, you're grabbing some cider.
It's something that you don't necessarily think about, but it's what it's used for.
It's used for celebrations, it's used for parties, it's used for things that bring people
together and things that we can celebrate together.
That's one thing that I really realized as I started working in the beverage industry
with this software, that it's just such an amazing community and the more you engage
with it, the more you get out of it.
People are always willing to talk to you about brewing, regardless of what kind of brewing
it is, you can get along with somebody who has only ever brewed beer in their life.
If you just say, hey, I do cider, I do mead, I do this other weird thing that I decided
to ferment this very specific plant or something like that, at the very least you have that
kind of common bond where you're going and trying to make something new and pleasant
that's like at the end of the day, you're sharing that with somebody.
You're not necessarily just sitting around doing that by yourself, at least you've got
a partner, you've got some friends that you want to share that with.
Even if that's online, there's so much to it that is just community that people don't
necessarily realize.
For me, that's really the excitement aspect of it where I love contributing to that community
because at the end of the day, it's such a big component of the human experience, I would
say, because it's just been alcohol fermented beverages have been around as long as you
can probably remember.
It's something that we sometimes take for granted, but it's a valuable part of what
makes a community.
Yeah, agreed, and I think there's parallels to be drawn there to software.
If you build, if you write a little library or a little tool or something, it's always
great to have a community to go to and to say, hey, look at this thing I made and people
are like, that's really cool and you get that feedback and you get that even when people
tell you, oh, you know what, there's this way that you can make this even better.
I think it's the same thing when it comes to brewing.
If you share your brewing recipe, somebody might say, you know what, I did something
similar and I did this little difference and it made such a big, like you have this experience
with these different honeys and that having the real deal coming from a craft place or
something is so much better than the honey you get at the supermarket.
You might get somebody in the community who says, I'm making me, but I just can't quite
get there and you say, what honey are you using?
And they're like, oh, I'm using this thing from this place and you're like, you should
try and get it from a local farmer or something like somebody that works with bees because
that's going to make all the difference.
I think that knowledge sharing is a big part of it as well.
Yeah.
I'll give another example on that.
It's like the usage of what kind of parts of the lemon to use in like a meat or something
like that because then a lot of times the acidity of things like lemons and stuff may
be adverse towards yeast depending on the other things that you put in there.
You can do stuff like add lipids to the yeast so that then it kind of strengthens their
cellular walls.
We're getting way into the very specifics there, but I have a lot of good friends that
are fermentation science majors, which I didn't know was a thing until I got to Encompass
where they kind of gave me that kind of feedback where like, hey, if you're trying to use
more acidic, less than ideal flavors that would be great for us to consume but not necessarily
ideal for the yeast to live in and produce alcohol in, you could potentially add some
additional things to strengthen the yeast and build up their tolerance, so to speak.
There's different parts of the lemon even.
We use like the pith and other parts of it instead of just straight up the lemon pieces
where you still get that kind of lemon flavor without necessarily introducing as much of
the acidity.
Yeah.
I understand.
It sounds very similar to cooking, also knowing what parts of the vegetable or fruit or whatever
spice to use and how much and when you add it to the mix and all that kind of stuff.
There's so many parallels between all these things and just community and the fact that
we're social creatures and we seek out this communion around things that we're interested
in and that we find so much joy from all of this.
So with that in mind, there's the other side of the coin where it's introducing different
flavors can sometimes be a little tricky like you just mentioned and maybe we can draw a
very strange parallel again here between that and introducing diversity into the workplace.
I think everybody's acknowledged that it's a good thing.
It's fascinating that it took us time to realize that.
It seems like one of those like more obvious things that the more differences of opinion
and the more differences of background and culture you have, the better your product
will be.
It doesn't matter what industry you're targeting, I think in general it's always a good idea.
But it's taken a while and I think the tech industry maybe have taken a bit longer than
others but it's getting there, it's getting better.
But I've spoken to a female guest previously who came from Mexico to the US and she spoke
a lot about the tensions and struggles she's found while in Mexico because of the cultural
differences where women wasn't really seen as somebody that would go into the tech industry
or even science for that matter but for her she was lucky in appearance was not of that
thought.
So they actually encouraged her to pursue it.
And then other challenges she faced when she then moved to the United States and you've
raised a whole bunch of points about this so I don't want to talk about it too much.
I just wanted to give some context around that and then have you just speak to this
a little bit because I know that you have been affected by this maybe on a more implicit
rather than explicit situations but if you want to talk about that, just the idea of
adding more ingredients, adding more diversity to the mix and what the potential problems
there could be and how everybody can work together to make this not such a struggle
that it's actually something we celebrate.
Right.
So I guess I'll start with kind of my own experiences leading up to officially kind
of being in the tech industry and studying tech.
So I mentioned this in our kind of discussions on Polywork but I'm Puerto Rican, my parents
are Puerto Rican and kind of similar to the guest you mentioned, being Hispanic has kind
of its challenges in the US depending on the area, a lot of times especially.
My dad is in the army, still is, and he's kind of, we moved around a whole bunch.
I've lived around in a whole bunch of places and sometimes it's more implicit bias depending
on the kind of people that are kind of circulating in the military space and sometimes it's very
much explicit.
And those experiences aren't necessarily great but they do certainly frame the perspective
of like, hey this is, it's not the same to be Hispanic in the United States as it is
to just wake up and be, I suppose the term that they would likely use is from the United
States.
Even though Puerto Rico is a US territory, a lot of times people would talk to me as
if I wasn't part of the US or like that I wasn't a US citizen and I should go back
to my own country.
And it's like, okay, I'm here, I'm ready to do this, I'm ready to contribute.
So that's been kind of challenging.
My dad always liked to say, when it comes to that, sometimes it's just a difference
of like, hey I'm not, my last name's Sepulveda, my last name's not Smith or Johnson or something
like that.
And then that's not to exclude anybody, that's just to put a frame of reference of like,
hey, sometimes people will perceive you differently.
Because of where you come from, what kind of culture you bring to the table.
And so that was a lot of my time growing up.
Like I moved around a whole bunch, I lived in Korea for six years and then lived in Hawaii
for another six, terrible places to live.
And from there went into tech kind of as studying computer science and then kind of taking on
jobs either in the university or like internships and stuff like that from there.
I will say definitely from that point on, it went from more of a explicit to an implicit
bias where people aren't necessarily going and outright saying, oh yeah, go back to your
country but maybe they'll go and say something that's kind of like off that makes you feel
weird.
And it's like, why does that make me feel weird?
Like where is that coming from and where is this person, do they know that this makes
me feel weird?
And that's not always an easy question to answer.
More recently there was an experience that I had with one of my managers at a company
previous where they would basically say, whenever I would use bigger words like an expanded
vernacular than just like, hey, how's it going?
Maybe I'll go and sprinkle some words that better illustrate what I'm saying.
And he would kind of make comments like, oh, those are big words.
And it's like, to a certain extent it's like, okay, it's not a word they use very often
but at the same time, am I not capable of saying those words?
Do you not believe me capable of using an expanded vernacular?
It's not always easy to even broach those subjects.
And I found that a lot of times it's, those implicit biases, generally speaking, I don't
like to go and say, oh, it is the person's fault and they likely they just don't know.
I'd like to give people the benefit of the doubt because that ends up more often than
not contributing to a positive conversation about it of improvement rather than necessarily
being like, hey, you're like going in and throwing labels like, hey, you're racist.
Hey, you're this.
Likely that's not the person's intention.
And I think the discussion aspect of it is super important and kind of jumping all over
the place a little bit.
But generally speaking, yeah, like that's kind of my thoughts on it where it requires
a conversation, I'd say.
So how do you think we can make having that conversation easier?
As I know from the previous case that I mentioned, that was one of the challenges talking about
it.
There was not a lot of support and it didn't feel like you could openly talk about this.
She thankfully lost, I heard, at a company where that is not that much of a problem anymore
and it's actually encouraged.
Have you had experience maybe, I don't know, anywhere that you've worked or interacted
maybe at university even, where you found that people have made this like a thing where
they've said like, whenever you feel this, this is the avenue where you bring this up
and where we can talk about this.
Because I think the tricky thing with implicit bias is that, like you said, oftentimes the
person might not even know that what they're saying is making something in you feel uncomfortable
or not good about yourself.
So how do we bring that to the fore?
How do we allow those conversations to happen without it turning into a confrontational
thing?
I know it's a hard question.
So I think it starts with knowing what is confrontational and non-confrontational language.
There was a really great book that one of the other software engineers that I networked
with showed me non-violent communication.
I forget who exactly wrote the book, but it was very informative in terms of like, there
are so many things that you might bring up that may or may not be considered confrontational.
Just the way that you say you bring up an issue might be the difference between someone
taking that personally and someone taking that as a point of improvement.
I think there are so many other factors that go into it, like whether or not you guys are
part of this same culture, different cultures.
One example might be just with a recent networking opportunity I had.
I was the only American at that kind of event.
Everybody else was kind of from Europe and from Africa and all these different places,
and talking to them was very interesting because they were very excited to talk with me.
I was very excited to talk with them, but there were some times when they would say
things that it would be like, huh.
Sometimes with the way that we talk in the United States, we're not necessarily as direct
as we would like to be.
Just someone very directly saying something to me, it's appreciated.
I love it.
I think it's great, but it's like getting accustomed to the different kinds of ways
that people speak and what kind of cultural norms there are.
I think that's one huge aspect of it.
From there, I really think that nonviolent communication is an important piece.
Then really just identifying it as, hey, really talk about it less from, hey, this person
is doing something wrong, and more of, hey, this is how I'm feeling right now.
I want to understand how we can maybe improve this kind of relationship that we have and
putting it from a perspective of we, right?
It's not on the person necessarily to go and learn because a lot of times if they just
don't know that that's the case, there's a lot of instances where just bringing that
up for the first time may be what opens their eyes and they're like, oh, I am so sorry
that I did that to you.
You can have that discussion and move forward in a positive manner, but definitely bringing
it up in a constructive way of like, hey, I really appreciate the kind of feedback.
Let's say it's a manager and you are somebody who is experiencing that kind of implicit
bias from your manager, like my example, somebody who is talking to me as if I can't use higher
level vocabulary, like just going in and sending some time aside and being like, hey, I feel
like those comments that you made about my big words are kind of hurtful, like alternatively
maybe framing it from the perspective of like, hey, those comments are hurtful.
Why do you feel the need to say that?
Understanding the other person's perspective I think is also a big component of it because
it may be that they think that it's like, oh, well, that's the way my parents acted
with me whenever I said big words, they'd be like, oh, those are big words.
For them in their family, it means something, but for us outside, maybe it means something
different.
You really never know until you have that conversation.
A lot of times it's navigating that and just taking it with the idea of neither of you
are really trying to be malicious about things, we're just trying to solve a problem.
If we can approach it from that perspective, really a lot of the other things kind of fall
in line because at the very least you have two solution oriented people that are going
to accomplish this kind of improvement in the relationship between you two as opposed
to just coming at it from, oh, you're a racist, I can't believe that you would say something
like that.
Sure maybe those labels will make you feel better when you say them, but that won't
necessarily solve the problem because a lot of times if people get confronted like that,
they'll just like retreat and kind of maybe double down because they don't believe that
they're being that way.
There's so many different reactions to that as opposed to a more constructive and positive
approach.
Generally speaking, people are more willing to come to the table and meet you halfway.
Yeah, I know for sure.
That's really good advice.
To switch to a different topic that's along the similar lines, but talking about the other
side of the things, during our conversational and poly work, I mentioned I also want to
talk about the good parts and you weren't exactly sure what I meant by that.
By the way, that is something that I found interesting.
In written language, we often write from our perspective and we use maybe cultural phrases
that we understand, not thinking what the person who's reading this might read from
that.
It's been really interesting on one of the projects we do as part of the Marseille network.
There's quite a lot of written content involved there and we have people from Brazil and places
like that who's also involved in it.
There's one particular person, Raphael, that I've also spoken to on the podcast previously,
who's amazing at the feedback he gives and the way he does it.
He's just really good at it.
He's pointed out some things in the written context where he's like, I'm not exactly sure
what you mean here.
Did you mean this or did you mean this thing?
That has opened my eyes incredibly to a lot of things that we don't necessarily think
about.
It's highlighted how important it is to have this diversity within a team, within a community
because they bring out the best in thing because now that content is so much more accessible
to a much wider audience because you've been much more clear about what you're actually
trying to say in this paragraph or in this sentence.
With that in mind, what I meant with the good parts is some of the things like the framework
wars and some of these struggles we still have in the workplace and the diversity and
talking and how do we talk about the difficult things in a productive manner.
The good parts for me is then when it comes down to making things, what is it about the
tech industry that made you think like, hmm, I think I'm interested in what that is.
I want to learn more about what that is and as you learn more, something about it piqued
your interest and you were like, yeah, I think I want to do this for my career.
That is the good parts.
What were those things about the tech industry that got you to say, yeah, this is what I
want to do as a career?
I would say one of the big things is obviously problem solving.
I love being presented some sort of challenge, some sort of feature, even some sort of bug
where there's a problem that needs to be solved and going through the motions of like, well,
what is the current problem?
Do we need additional user research to solve this problem?
I love going through that process because a lot of times that research is really applicable
in other contexts.
You don't really think about it when you go and do just a single feature.
Maybe you want to add a chat bot or something like that to a front-facing webpage just as
a random example.
Now you know how to do that for the next project that you're doing and you kind of learn some
additional aspects of maybe you need to implement it asynchronously, where now you have the
ability, especially in JavaScript, to understand promises and understand weights and be able
to work with more asynchronous data where each of these little experiences kind of culminate
into being able to solve bigger problems.
Usually a lot of the problem solving is breaking down those big problems into smaller problems.
With that, being able to then equate that to experiences that you had in the past of
being like, hey, well, I've solved four or five of these problems and I can research
this fifth one.
Just being able to leverage that kind of problem solving mindset on a daily basis and solve
problems that really help people in the long run is a huge aspect of the good parts of
the tech industry.
I'd say also collaboration.
I keep on going to community and collaboration, but really I think you get the most out of
really software building when you are able to leverage a design team, whether that's
a UI, UX team, a product manager, a product owner.
I've got a project right now where we're working on a CRM app.
It's currently in alpha.
We're still kind of working through some of the things with our initial alpha customer,
but we've got sales on deck.
We've got marketing.
We've got the product team, product owners for three different products in our company
and the UI, UX lead, and all of us together that creates such an interesting discussion
every week and interesting next steps all the time of like, hey, this is what we actually
kind of need based off of our conversations with the user, based off of our conversations
of what our system can handle and cannot handle.
This is how we need to implement it.
Let's go through the process of creating some of these wireframes.
Let's make some higher fidelity designs.
I love that aspect of it because there's so much discussion and kind of like that where
you likely don't have the full picture unless you talk to other people.
That's not even including like the stakeholders of the actual project, like the companies
or the clients that you're working with where now introducing them into the mix and understanding
their problems that also creates such an interesting experience of collaboration where everybody
that you work with in the tech industry, you're collaborating in some way.
It's not just like, oh, hey, do this.
Usually if you're on a team with a couple of developers, you are collaborating on something,
whether that's going and reviewing each other's code, pair programming, whatever the case
may be.
I can give plenty more examples, but that collaboration aspect is such a big component
of it that I like and I love, if you can't tell, I love talking with people.
It's really rewarding to be able to do that and then also leverage some technical skill
to be able to accomplish those kind of software solutions.
Yeah, that's great.
I agree 100%.
I love that collaborative thing as well, especially when you're working on a problem that everybody
is passionate about, enthusiastic about, and everybody wants to see the best possible solution
in the end of the day, I think that is like when you've really hit gold, so to speak.
I have one question that's going to kind of lead into a different thing I want you to
talk about a little bit, so let's start with the first one, which is from everything I've
read, I can see that you're really into D&D, Dungeons and Dragons, are there any parallels
that you can draw between the game of Dungeons and Dragons and the tech industry or working
on a team?
Yeah, certainly.
Most of my experience in Dungeons and Dragons is as a game master, so a lot of it is just
almost like project management where you have a clear goal of what needs to happen this
session and just an overarching, hey, the goal of this campaign is to do this, but then
you have these smaller sessions and you can equate those to sprints, where each of these
sprints you're trying to accomplish something in that sprint and some DMs are more rigid
and they say, hey, we're not leaving until we accomplish this thing.
That is the end of the session.
For me, it's a lot more flexible of like, hey, if we go through the motions and we get
to that point, great.
If we get farther than that point, fantastic.
If we get to a point where we're not necessarily at where I wanted to be in the story, that's
okay.
We'll go and plan better for the next one.
A lot of that is literally parallel with just agile methodology.
From a player perspective, a lot of that collaboration still holds where instead you each are components
of that agile methodology where let's say it's a couple of developers, a product designer,
et cetera, where maybe you're the bard, you're the paladin, you're the rogue, where each
of you have skills that help in different situations.
Maybe you have to do some sort of stealth, sneak into the castle and save the princess.
The rogue is better suited for that and maybe the paladin can create a distraction.
If you think about it from a software perspective, some people are better with front-end technologies,
some people are better with backend technologies, some people are better with very specific
tools and some people are better at the people side of communication and stuff like that.
A lot of that holds in Dungeons and Dragons as well where the opportunities to leverage
what your class is good at are always there and generally speaking, a good GM will take
the opportunities to highlight those, same with a good manager.
You know your people's strengths, you can help them with your weaknesses but also highlight
their strengths and have them play to their best role because obviously a paladin maybe
isn't the best person to be sneaking around in full plate armor, just as an example.
They're going to be sounding like plates that just dropped out of a pantry or something
like that, just like all this noise everywhere.
Those are some of the parallels but a lot of the times you can find a lot of similarities
between the two and yeah, I play it enough to where I even have a campaign in the company
that I'm currently at in Compass where a lot of the people like it's me, I'm a developer,
we've got some other people who are like somebody from HR, a couple product managers, a release
manager, all these different people who if we take out the D&D aspect of it and then
look at the actual team aspect of it, we've got this diverse team of individuals with
different experiences, different specialties in the software and also in general in their
career where they can leverage it.
I think that's some of the things that I can think of off the top of my head.
I can obviously go and rant on about it all day because I love Dungeons and Dragons.
Yeah, no, I love that.
That's wonderful.
I love that analogy.
It's really great.
That leads me into the next thing.
I had a look on your GitHub profile and you have a project called Sovereign of Chaos.
I think I'm pronouncing it correctly.
That sounds incredibly interesting.
I'd love you to dig into that some and some of the things that I'm interested in is what
exactly it is, how you came about to build this, and then from the larger collaborative
aspects, are you open to others using this, working it, contributing back to it, and give
us a nice overview of what this project is and what your goals are with it?
Yeah, I'll start with the naming because obviously the Sovereign of Chaos, it's like out of all
the things that you can name a project, why would you name it that?
That's actually a Dungeons and Dragons thing, more specifically the setting of Eberron.
That's one of the settings that they've published.
It's not just one setting that they have for Dungeons and Dragons and that's it.
There's a couple published ones that Wizards of the Coast, the company that owns Dungeons
and Dragons, have published and then obviously people can go and bring in their own homebrew
worlds.
One of the worlds that I really like and really resonate with me is Eberron.
It was written by a guy named Keith Baker.
He's really a big player with the concept of like nothing is black and white and again
it goes back to kind of like the same kind of concepts we've been talking about today
where it's not as easy as just kind of like yes or no or like it's a discussion.
Eberron is kind of the same way where in a lot of ways like there are spells of like
detect good and evil in Dungeons and Dragons where Keith Baker has said, hey, if I had
my way in Eberron, those wouldn't work because it's all perspective based, right?
Where somebody wouldn't necessarily like just because someone is classified as a monstrosity
in the system mechanically does not necessarily mean that they're evil, right?
And I really like that setting because of that where there's a lot of muddled grays
and it's kind of generally speaking like a Knorr aspect to it.
One of the major cities in Eberron is this place called Sharn which is this big floating
like metropolis kind of like I'm trying to think of an example like very Art Deco kind
of like 19 like roaring 20s with that mixture of like medieval fantasy and also like magic
and then also sprinkled in with some more technology aspects fueled by magic.
So that setting really resonated with me.
The Sovereign of Chaos is one of those kind of figures in the Dark Six of Eberron.
They're like some of the gods that people worship in that setting.
The Traveler as he's called is the Sovereign of Chaos.
He kind of brings along change that's kind of what his kind of what is called the underlying
concepts behind him are around like change and really with the project I decided to name
him that because I really wanted just like a Discord bot where I could really play around
with different concepts and not really have a single sort of goal and just have it be
like hey I want to add this feature to it great like really more of a learning experience
for me than necessarily like a purpose-built bot for a specific you know user flow or something
like that and that's kind of evident in the kind of features that it has like I started
small with some basic things like you know like an eight ball like some like a gotcha
item puller where like given this feed of magic items from like existing Dungeons and
Dragons publications obviously with the open game license in mind you know going and producing
those magic items because sometimes in the game there are instances where somebody like
you want to reward them with some sort of magic item but you don't necessarily know
what to do because you weren't planning on that they they managed to to go and do something
that you want to reward them somehow but you have no idea so like maybe you think of oh
I want to pull uncommon magic item really a lot of the the features were also revolving
around Dungeons and Dragons and trying to help with my own game mastering initiative
order and skills challenges were also one thing where it kept the persistent state of
the current initiative challenges or initiative orders where essentially that kind of means
that there's some sort of combative encounter that is happening at that moment same thing
with skills challenges just being able to track that and having some order to a more
complex situation so maybe it's not a combat situation but a practical example might be
hey you have to escape this castle like you're not in combat yet but you are also about to
be arrested like how how does your team navigate that and attaching a sort of the reason why
I would attach an initiative order to that is just to give the opportunity for everybody
in the team to contribute because then it goes in a sequential order of turns as opposed
to whoever raises their hand first and blurts out what they want to do gives a lot more
opportunity for contributions as opposed to not with those features that was really the
kind of core concept behind it the intention was to kind of take input and provide output
through a discord server which discords python api or discord pi like it is so useful and
so easy to use that it felt like you know these features are just flying out of my fingers
into the keyboard into the repository so it was really exciting seeing it and I had it
on a server of about 50 people and that it was also doing like event reminders like kind
of like asynchronous stuff like I just started building on top of it and kind of having it
be a one one bot for everything for that server so people could go and set reminders go and
specific events like maybe there was some sort of like every monday we do this like
just sending reminders and stuff like that trying to think about what else off the top
of my head but it was just a whole bunch of features just discord oriented for that purpose
just playing around and seeing what the extent of the discord pi library could do and being
able to use it positively like just to improve the experience on a server so that was a lot
of fun with it I mean in terms of like open source like being able to fork it build on
it I'd say anybody that wants to can go for it it's one of the big reasons why I put it
on github in a public repository because it's just built on discord pi and a couple other
minor libraries that I'm pretty sure all have the same kind of licensing that it's just
kind of like hey go for it so yeah I mean anybody that wants to to pull or contribute
build on that like a lot of the concepts are were really helpful for me to learn especially
like asynchronous handling of like messages and being able to like shard and kind of basically
thread a bot so that then in the event of like multiple servers trying to add this bot
to it then you know like how do you handle that and and keep a data structure that makes
sense for like you know server a shouldn't be seeing the data for server b and you get
into that even more so with like I added like xp tracking and stuff like that as well so
every time somebody sent a message like you know should that xp carry over between server
to server those those were the kind of questions that I had so like I mean it was extremely
beneficial to to build and it really improved my knowledge of building software so if it
helps anybody like that sees it and wants to to take a look or play around with discord
pi and see what's capable say go for it right so do you it's interesting I like a lot of
the features and a lot of they make me think like do you foresee a machine learning aspect
to this being useful say somebody is like really like dug into the open ai python stuff
and they're like hmm I wonder if we can add some like machine learning aspects to this
thing is that something you'd be interested in exploring I think so I think there's a
lot of benefits to machine learning like from a perspective of like just trying to improve
our lives instead of replace people's like jobs or anything like that there are a lot
of aspects where we we can improve people's lives with it the with discord specifically
I can see potentially like being able to process and understand what what violent communication
looks like what like derogatory communication looks like and as the you know human like
linguistics evolves like having something that evolves with it to be able to accurately
create a safe and comfortable environment I can see that being very useful from the
my specific bot I can see a lot of value in doing machine learning on how to properly
build an encounter so like with every monster and Dungeons and Dragons there is some sort
of challenge rating assigned to them and different skills that they can use even in the same
challenge rating and like that challenge ratings from 0 to 30 you still have a lot of aspects
where that challenge rating isn't exactly a full indicator of what how challenging this
is going to be for your party because certain classes are are you know have different abilities
that may be better suited to combat a creature than others so I can see from a machine learning
perspective like it might be valuable to take a deeper understanding of not just the challenge
ratings but also the the classes and being like hey given these are the players that
are engaging with this this is a more realistic aspect of whether or not this encounter is
easy medium hard or deadly you know I can see a lot of value in that as well because
then that creates a better experience when the GM doesn't have to worry about completely
TPKing the party which is a total party kill you know or alternatively creating a big bad
and like bringing that person in only to have it be completely curb stomped by the party
because you know like based off of like even action economy you could run into those types
of issues where where one enemy is moving for every five people that are fighting against
it like obviously there's just like that economy of action like is going to create a problem
so machine learning to better understand that and apply those more higher level concepts
to Dungeons and Dragons and properly schedule an encounter and like create an encounter
that's valuable and meaningful and kind of accomplishes what the DM is trying to do.
I think that could be super valuable and it would be super cool if I had a tool like that.
Yeah, that's great.
Yeah, I'm fascinated about how we can use these new found technologies and skills to
improve our lives definitely I think that is the one thing that I kind of decided to
do is to look at it from a positive perspective there's a lot of negativity around it and
I understand it but at the same time I'm like it's not going anywhere so we might as well
find ways of using it effectively to improve us as a species maybe that's maybe a little
bit going too far but maybe not maybe it's possible but at least like improving my day
to day like is it any way it can make me a little bit more productive take care of some
of the medium that I don't really enjoy doing so you know can I have something that's trained
to help me do these things yeah I'm trying to see it from that perspective but then keeping
ethics in mind and you know is this done like what is the potential downsides of this like
keeping that in your mind but not being a complete cynic about all of this right there's
a positive aspect to it positive aspect really to anything it's just a matter of like you
know especially with AI like we can find ways to incorporate it without necessarily making
people's lives worse I agree 100% yeah yeah for sure so with everything that you've experienced
in your time in tech for people just getting into the industry whether that is young folks
getting into it like because just straight out of school or out of university or whether
it's people in different stages of their lives deciding to switch careers like do you have
any like advice for these people like what what should they think about keep in mind
when they're just getting into this set some expectations that's more same than some of
the some of the expectations that are sometimes thrown out there when it comes to tech breaking
the problem in smaller chunks like just in general it's really easy to be intimidated
by wanting to learn how to program I have a couple people who have reached out even
in my current company where they're like hey I really want to learn how to program I want
to get to the point of developer and I'm like okay I'd be happy to help like if you have
some sort of learning and you're trying to understand how something works or even learn
how some of the things work more deeply in our company like I'd be happy to do that
and like it seems like a lot of times people get intimidated by the daunting task that
is learning programming because it seems like such a big mountain for a lot of people and
really you only get up that mountain through several smaller steps right like you know
even software building you know you break those problems down we've kind of mentioned
that before it's the same thing with learning software like maybe you want to be a front
end developer or something like that like you know there there are smaller components
to what that is like maybe you want to learn the core you break that problem from front
end developer and be like well no actually that means that I need to learn HTML I need
to learn CSS I need to learn JavaScript I need to learn React I need to learn some sort
of stack of like maybe the lamp stack or the the myrn stack or something like that like
break that problem down and be like okay well now I need to learn like mongo like node.js
react okay and then break that problem down and be like cool I want to learn the core
concepts I want to get a project going for node.js like here's my kind of goal with this
learning to be able to accomplish this and really breaking that problem down like either
if you're trying to learn on your own or in academia it's really helpful and it will
only help you in kind of the crazy projects that they kind of throw at you in academia
as well I had a class I went to Northern Arizona University and one of the professors ran a
course for operating systems where essentially we were building our own operating system
simulator in C and that was really one of the points where I started really breaking
down problems in the smaller chunks in a lot of ways because I had to because he would
just be like hey I want you to implement all these different scheduling algorithms like
shortest job first first first in first out like and it's like oh god I have two weeks
to do this and like my last project didn't do so well so it's like I've got to make
those changes I've got to improve those and then I've got to go and build the new stuff
so it's once I start understanding like how to break those problems down that really helped
me to be able to navigate challenges in the tech industry where instead of seeing it as
this big project now I'm like okay these are the kind of smaller steps and then even
smaller steps and then this is what I can do right now and this is kind of the process
to go from point A to point B to point C however many other letters that it takes to get to
the end goal so I would say that's my big advice break the problem into smaller chunks
break the learning of tech and the kind of professional development in the smaller chunks
and just take it in stride really because you may not think that you're really making
a lot of progress but if you look back on yourself even a month after where you were
today like chances are you've learned a lot more than you think you have you've probably
implemented something that you didn't think that you were able to do and you look back
and you're like wow it magnifies so much more in the context of years of experience
to where like really you know the only way you're going to get through that is not by
thinking about it from the perspective of like hey I want to get here in 10 years let's
break this problem down because then at the very least those are actionable steps that
your brain can actually process and be able to navigate successfully.
Yeah that's great advice and yeah I totally agree I often break it down right down to
what is the first variable I need to keep maybe keep some state okay cool so now how
do I set this date how do I update this date so you kind of start to really from that little
tiny variable that then builds out and out and out into solving the bigger solution so
in closing you've shared like many of your interests but one other one that I know that
you have is you're a tattoo enthusiast you know the second person in a week that I've
spoken to that has the same interest and the one thing that I always enjoy about it is
learning about the stories behind the tattoos because often they're super interesting so
is there any particular tattoo that you have that has a story of special meaning to you
behind it that you're wanting to share with the community?
Oh yeah totally so I kind of have my whole arm here like my right arm kind of filled
up with tattoos still need to finish it up like there's a couple of blank spaces and
I'd like to get my tattoo artist to actually fill it in and make it feel like a completed
like sleeve but there's one right here if you can see that one so for audio purposes
I'll go and describe it so essentially it's kind of a dragon face kind of in like black
and white lots of shading in it as well as some aspects of red in the eyes the dragon
itself is from a game called Monster Hunter Monster Hunter World to be specifically or
to be specific sorry the what's this is the final boss of their the expansion Iceborne
in a lot of ways Monster Hunter really is like similar to the experiences I've had
where you are taking things one hunt at a time and like you're like wow this game is
really hard like I'm not sure if this is necessarily like great like sometimes it's not the easiest
game to play especially depending on what kind of weapon you choose to play that game
like whether it's a greatsword like a gunlance or something like that there's like 16 different
weapons but this was actually my first tattoo and the reason why I got it was mainly it
was something bold I wanted to have a piece on my body that was bold when people saw it
then they were like whoa like it's an eye-catcher immediately people are like whoa that is so
cool can I take a look at that it's a little bit vain but at the same time the other aspect
of it it was really my first tattoo and I was kind of on the fence for a while about
getting tattoos a lot of my upbringing was kind of like oh no well your body is a temple
you know all this sort of Christian values associated with that and ultimately getting
out and actually exploring the world myself and understanding the world and perceiving
it myself that really opened my eyes to like well you know yeah my body is a temple I should
take care of it but you know I it's my choice what I get to decorate it in my temple with
you know like if I'm you know just to kind of put it in that temple perspective so really
with that I like Monster Hunter is a game that I hold very near and dear to my heart
and Sharashvalda itself it's kind of like this world-ending worm like this kind of and
the way it's presented in the game is this kind of like almost omniscient like dragon
that is just like constantly like there's a point once you start fighting in in like
the third phase where its eyes open up and it's those same stark kind of red eyes except
the eyes are not tracking your player in the game they are tracking you the camera perspective
so regardless of where you're hitting and stuff that that camera you know it creates
this element of like the Shara knows what's going on almost you know like knows what's
what what this is what this is versus you know like just being in that game it kind
of creates this kind of fourth wall break of this dragon that is so wise and intelligent
that it can see beyond that perspective and and generally speaking that that kind of aspect
of wisdom and and stuff like that is also a big component of why I chose that monster
out of all the monsters because I could have chosen like the the cover art dragon or something
like that you know I could have chosen any anything but really Sharashvalda really resonated
with me yeah that's great I knew there was a story thank you so much this was a wonderful
conversation so much you paint such beautiful pictures with your words really I really enjoyed
listening to you talk I hope this was a good experience I know this was your first podcast
it was definitely great for me so thank you so much for joining and I wish you all all
of the success in your future yeah thank you I really appreciate the opportunity and really
I if you can't tell I love talking with people I love hearing about your own experiences
as well so you know I'm really glad to be on and yeah hopefully we talk soon yeah for
sure have a lovely rest of your day and I'll speak to you soon thank you for listening
to this episode of the my senior network podcast if you're not already please subscribe store
and leave a review for us in your podcatcher of choice this helps others find us and helps
us make a better podcast for you on this course you can also find and follow us on twitter
at meet with my senior enjoy the community on discord all the links are available in
the show notes
