Welcome to the Mycelium Network Podcast, a podcast all about early-stage web developers
and the mentors and teachers that help them along the way.
Today we have Isabel joining us.
Welcome, Isabel.
Thanks for joining.
Yeah, thanks for having me.
It's a pleasure.
I found you on Twitter when I saw a tweet of yours that said, let's open a call and connect.
This is for anyone who wants encouragement when it comes to finding jobs in tech, exploring
web dev career.
Is that something you do regularly?
Yeah, I'm actually fairly active on Twitter.
I'm definitely the type that's just all about community and just kind of uplifting people.
When it comes to coding, it's not easy.
It's not easy doing it alone.
And so I think community is just such an essential part of anybody's kind of coding journey.
So yeah.
That's for sure.
So with that, Mycelium Network, as you know, is part of a community that's exactly set
up for this to help people who are early-stage web developers.
It's kind of focused on web developers, but it's not exclusive.
We don't tell people who aren't web developers, sorry, you're not welcome.
But also I see the concept of an early-stage web developer, the reason why I use that phrasing
as opposed to beginner is because everybody's beginners at something at some point.
And I think the word beginner has kind of maybe even gotten a bit of a bad rap, like
saying you're a beginner.
So that's why I've adopted the phrase of early-stage developer.
It sounds a bit different because you might actually have coding experience, but you don't
know JavaScript.
You can do C every day of the week, but JavaScript, you're new to that.
You're new to HTML.
You need to CSS.
So that's kind of why I adopted that.
And also a lot of people like switch careers, like they used to be in enterprise software
development.
And it's not even a career switch from not being a coder to being a coder, but from enterprise
to maybe startup or enterprise to ed tech.
And that's also a change because the thinking, the problem solving, that's different.
So again, you're new at something or a beginner at something.
So with all of that in mind, what is your story?
What is your history?
I know that you didn't start being a coder, if I understand correctly, that's something
that you're transitioning kind of into.
Yeah.
So for my case, I actually have a background in marketing specifically within the mental
health field.
And I was working in marketing within mental health for about two years.
And I guess basically during COVID, I started to really think about what really interested
me, what really wanted me to kind of develop more into the career that I was getting into.
And at the time, well, still is, but tech has been like trending, right?
Especially during like COVID and such.
And so that definitely gave me like a little interest in it.
And I kind of wanted to see more of how I can get involved and such.
And so now kind of just moving forward, I work for an ed tech company called Dreambox
Learning as a marketing operations associate.
And basically networking and just knowing how to create landing pages with basic HTML
and CSS, that landed me the job in tech.
And so now I'm still kind of in the process of like onboarding and training because I
literally just got the job of a few weeks ago, but yeah, I'm just kind of helping out
like our web developers and such develop the company like landing pages and whatnot.
So yeah, that's kind of where I'm at now.
Awesome.
That's great.
Can you tell us a little bit more about Dreambox?
It sounds really interesting.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So Dreambox Learning, it's a tech company that focuses on adaptive kind of technology
and they really try to make a software or a program curriculum to adapt to a student's
like learning.
And so it's a very personalized approach to a student's like learning.
So it not just helps like the student in their like learning journey, but as well as like
the educator, like they're also able to kind of track and see what the student is missing
and such.
So yeah, it's pretty impressive technology that our company's getting involved in.
So yeah.
Yeah.
It sounds really interesting.
I know from people that I've spoken to, one of the things they find tricky besides just
finding good content is finding something that fits with their learning style.
So having something that can adapt to your learning style, yeah, that sounds really interesting.
So as you're new to tech in some way, shape and form, I know from speaking to previous
guests and just in general speaking to early stage folk, there are a lot of challenges
when you like walk into this new world.
So for you, what have been the challenges that you faced?
Yeah.
So I mean, I can probably go off on the numerous challenges that I'm facing, but I think the
common denominator, like the root of it all is just imposter syndrome.
Like I would have these constant thoughts of thinking like, I'm not smart enough, or
I don't know enough math, or I'm a slow learner, or even something like I don't deserve to
be in tech.
Like that kind of thinking just really hits hard sometimes.
And I don't know, maybe it's also just nowadays, I feel like people put tech at such a high
kind of standard or on some sort of pedestal that you have to be a certain somebody to
get into tech.
But honestly, like really anyone can do it.
Anyone can learn how to code.
Like I never imagined myself like being able to learn HTML, CSS, and now JavaScript.
Like growing up, my dad, he was a software engineer, and he never actually pushed me
to like look into web development, but I knew that he knew that I had an interest in it.
And I just remember growing up, he actually bought me this web page builder, and I was
just obsessed with it.
Like it was just so much fun just like putting together like really simple websites, like,
I mean, now it probably looks like crap, but like, it was just so much fun, the creative
process and stuff.
But yeah, and I think like, now I'm actually really thankful that he never really pushed
me to like learn how to code like in college or in school or anything like that.
Because for me, this is the first time that I'm actually like wanting to do this myself
and not really having anybody else kind of push me.
Like this is something that I personally want to do.
And it's just cool being able to see other people like me who are just like normal or
non-tech, non-technical kind of people learn to code.
So yeah, I'd say imposter syndrome was definitely like the main challenge for me.
Yeah.
Gotcha.
Yeah.
And I think it's something that doesn't ever really go away.
Because again, I'm going back to this idea of being a beginner at something.
Like I've written JavaScript for a very long time.
But in the recent year and a half or so, I started picking up TypeScript.
And I mean, I feel like a complete newbie again.
Oh, yeah.
It's like typing.
I used to deal with types and stuff like 10 years ago when I did Java and I left that
behind and now suddenly like TypeScripts come on the scene and it's quite the thing.
And like especially when you're creating APIs, TypeScript is great because it gives you that
layer of protection where it says to the user of your API, hey, you're trying to pass me
a string, but I'm expecting an integer.
So it protects you from making a mistake even before you've written the code, like when
you try to call it.
So it's great.
But it's a whole new way of thinking about writing JavaScript.
And even though people say TypeScript is just a superset of JavaScript, it's significantly
different when you really get into it.
If you want to really make use of it properly, there's a lot of differences.
But the fact that you now have a job doing some web development and stuff like that obviously
means that you have found some resources that has been useful to you and has been helped
you to learn.
And I assume, and correct me if I'm wrong, but the fact that you've gone from one industry
to another, you most likely had to do a lot of this by yourself.
It wasn't like going to university and doing a computer science degree.
It's more like buy the bootstraps, do it yourself.
So what resources have you found that you find particularly useful and depend on?
Yeah.
Well, it all started out with the Codecademy.
And I just tried a free trial at first.
And it was really nice because on their interface, you're able to see the project and the instructions
and then you also have your space to code and then you're also able to preview, have
a live preview of what you're coding.
So all that kind of side by side, it kind of just made everything click.
Like, oh, if I type this out, then this will pop up on the browser or whatever.
And so definitely learning by actually coding really, really helped.
And then kind of from there, I went off to different resources like Scrimba.
Scrimba is kind of similar in that sense.
And YouTube, a lot of YouTube tutorials, but I'm very, very cautious around YouTube tutorials
just because you can get so caught up in the, what is that called, quote unquote, tutorial
hell or whatever.
Oh, I forgot about that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But, I don't know, I feel like as long as you're understanding the concept and the idea
of what you're coding and why you're coding it in a certain way, then things will kind
of start to click and then you're actually able to make your own projects and such.
And so a lot of ways that I kind of learned was through tutorials and then I would watch
it, re-watch it, watch it again until I understand what's going on.
And then I exit out of the video and I just try to make my own thing, but that's still
revolving around the idea of the concept behind that video that I just watched.
And so in a way, I guess tutorial hell is not really hell, but it can be kind of useful
in some ways.
And there's a lot of ways to kind of apply what you learn with those kinds of resources.
But as I was...
So that was probably last year when I really relied on YouTube, Codecademy, and Scrimba.
And then I just kind of got lost.
I didn't really know where to go after HTML and CSS.
And I was looking on LinkedIn and I saw a lot of people were active in the tech community
on Twitter.
And then that was when I hopped on Twitter just to see what was going on, like, what
do you mean LinkedIn or Twitter's the new LinkedIn or whatever.
And so after just kind of exploring different, what is that called, like Twitter communities
and such, I connected with my friend Alondra and she is doing the coding bootcamp, the
100 devs bootcamp by Leon.
And I decided to hop on that too.
And it has been great just having more of a structure with my learning.
Like I'm able to kind of see, oh, after CSS, you can go to like JavaScript.
Like it's a lot better than just kind of creating my own kind of roadmap.
And with a bunch of different resources out there, I got really overwhelmed.
And there were so many people saying, oh, use this, oh no, you should listen to so-and-so.
And after just sticking to like one bootcamp, I'm actually able to like see the connections
with everything that I'm learning, you know, because everything is kind of like a building
block from then on.
So yeah, those are definitely the resources that I've used.
But I think the one thing is really community and within the bootcamp and on Twitter, that
has been such a huge help.
And I just love how experienced web developers are willing to mentor and have coffee chats
for anybody.
And it's just so great knowing that you have people who have you back, you know?
They have like your best interest in mind and want to like push you to be like a good
developer.
And so it's so nice to have this kind of community that's just so, so supportive.
So that's definitely, I think community is like the biggest one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's super to hear you say that.
I've always been a little weary of the industry not being as friendly and welcoming, especially
when we talk about like the wider, you know, non-standard like white male like me.
I've always wondered like, what is the experience from that perspective?
Because you hear a lot of horror stories, right?
Especially women in tech.
I've heard a lot of stories about where, you know, it's just like even on Twitter, it's
toxic.
And I've always been like, how do we approach this?
How do we fix this or at least improve it?
So it's great for me to hear that you've had this like really positive experience.
That's really good to hear.
And I think that that leads us nicely into the next question that I had is, like you
said, there's so many resources, so many things, so many possible routes you can take.
So with all of that in mind and all the things that you have learned, like what has been
stuff that you found particularly tricky and stuff that you feel like, this kind of doesn't
work so well.
It would be nice if we can do X that would have helped me a lot.
Honestly, I don't really think there's anything exactly missing, just because everybody just
learns differently, hence the various amounts of resources out there, you know, but I honestly
think it's important for beginners to just know that if you purchase this course or if
you take this class or whatever, it does not guarantee getting a job in tech.
Like there should be a fine print for every kind of class or course out there that says
it depends because it really depends on the person and how they learn and how they use
their knowledge to apply that to their projects.
It depends on their mental health, like mental health was such a huge thing for me to really
navigate when it comes to coding and just the job hunt, like it can be very draining.
And I guess it also depends on their network and how they network and who is in their network
too.
So yeah, I just think that there should be a fine print out there that just says it really
depends because I think it's really misleading when there are ads out there that say, oh,
you'll get a job in tech like right after you complete X, Y, and Z. And you know, it's
just false advertising, like it's just not realistic.
It really depends on the person's process.
So yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, I did.
There's quite a couple of those going around.
There's actually one or two of them that I personally just classify as a scam, where
they advertise this thing where, oh, you can join as an intern in this company sending
your resume.
Then you do that.
Then they get back to you and say, oh, unfortunately you didn't quite make the cut.
But if you take our 200 euro course and you do really well, it might just be a job for
you.
I've seen this on some Slack channels and I've said to people, be careful because this
is what happened to a friend of mine and this is how it played out.
So I don't want to demotivate you or anything, but be careful, be weary, because not all
of this is, you know, it's an old adage.
If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is not true, which is unfortunate, but I think
people need to be careful.
And I think one of the traps people also fall in with tech is you think that it's riches
immediately.
And I think while there is the opportunity to make good money, I think the work is hard.
And if you don't enjoy it, then the money's going to dry up the feeling it gives you in
the beginning where it's like you've got some, you know, expendable income and you can buy
some nice stuff, but yeah, the work is hard.
If you don't enjoy it, it's going to become like any other job.
You're going to end up hating it because I think people need to get into coding because
you like solving problems and it just happens that you use code to solve those problems.
One of the things you mentioned while you were speaking is being tired from all the
interviews and the whole process around that.
And I know that that's a part of the industry that definitely needs addressing.
I think it's not great, to put it mildly.
It's a combination of HR challenges and then just the interview process itself being stuck
in the 90s or early 2000s or something and it just hasn't evolved.
The industry has changed so much and somehow that has stuck with it.
What do you see as problems?
What makes you nervous or scared about the whole interview process and what would you
like to see changed?
I think when it just comes to the interview process in general, no matter the industry,
I guess the process should be like you should really pay attention to the kind of company
that you're interested in.
I feel like a lot of people nowadays, they kind of mass applied a bunch of different
companies and fill out all these forms and expect something.
I don't know, I just feel like that's not the best approach.
In my case, I've heard of people that get lucky in that kind of process, but I think
it's really important to be very careful with, think about what industry do you want to get
into and really pay attention to the people in that industry too and the products in that
industry.
I feel like that also being easier on the applicant themselves, they're actually able
to focus on one kind of industry, one kind of generic idea of what should be on the resume
and stuff.
I think with just job interviews, when it comes to the technical things, I think there
should be more resources out there for learning how to approach more technical side of code.
I don't know.
I know for myself, I needed to work really hard on remembering the technical words.
I don't know, I found that blogging actually really helps, actually writing out my thinking
process and I really enjoy thinking of ways to simplify complex concepts and I always
have friends read it over to see if it makes sense or something and it's cool just being
able to practice that because I think that's also a need, more resources trying to understand
how to approach the technical interview.
I feel like another thing that should change, this is kind of hard because I know recruiters
are just so busy but I think it's just so important to not leave applicants on read
or they just give them a generic email that doesn't give any kind of feedback.
Obviously it's such a hard process to solve but I don't know, I just feel like maybe there
should be a templated email of some sort that addresses the kind of projects that they're
expecting or something like that.
I've had a few friends that were applying for a few internships and dev jobs and stuff
and they got the same kind of email, literally copy and pasted and I don't know, that made
me sad because I'm just thinking like well that doesn't help and so it's hard, it's a
very complicated process, I don't really know what could be a good solution for something
like that but I just think it's just so sad when applicants just get left on read or they're
just given that templated kind of response that has no feedback whatsoever.
Yeah for sure, no I know, yeah definitely the fact, I feel like at least get back to
people and keep them in the loop that even if it's just this thing to say that we're
still talking to applicants, we haven't made a decision yet, we'll get back to you as soon
as the job's been filled and I think the important thing is also getting back to people when
the job is filled even if they didn't get the job to just let them know.
The job has been filled, unfortunately you were not the candidate we chose but thanks
so much, you know just something being a decent human being I think is what it boils down
to.
Yeah no exactly.
You know a lot of times things become so processed, not just like food but in real life that the
humanity is processed right out of it and the thing is it's not always a reflection
of the company unfortunately, like I've worked at companies where the interview process was
pretty terrible but the engineering group and the people in engineering are wonderful
people it's just that there is a very very big gap between HR and the people actually
doing the work and I don't know how you could solve that that piece because oftentimes you
might get a misperception of the company because of the interactions you have with the recruiting
side of it because oftentimes the recruiting side isn't even part of the company, it's
outsourced and like for them it's about how many people can be placed because we get a
cut of your pay you know for every person that they place so you know there's that all
thing to it too, yeah it's a hard problem to solve, related to that I mean some people
might say that you know what I'm just gonna forget the whole interview process and start
my own business and I think that is a question I have for people sometimes is would you rather
be worked for someone or start your own business but I think the bigger question I'm actually
trying to get at when I when I ask that is what does success look like to you like you've
made this transition right to a new a new you change your career you're in a new industry
when you look at your future what what does success look like?
Well just to address the the first part when it comes to either wanting to start a business
or join existing I've definitely thought about starting a business but I don't know it it
just sounds so stressful like I think you would definitely need to have like the right
people like on your side and and just I don't know just thinking about like funds and stuff
like that I'm just like yeah I don't want to stress about that kind of stuff right now
so I don't know I'm really just drawn to businesses or just companies that have a product that
I trust and believe in and moving beyond that even just the the company culture is like
really important to me like I know like Dreambox like like we're super passionate about diversity
and just making sure that people feel heard and like represented I just love everything
that our company's doing to really make sure that that's that's seen you know and so that's
something that I love about like any kind of company like they're they're not afraid
to to show off their their diverse and inclusive culture you know and it's it's just so so
great and they're not afraid to even answer the the hard stuff that's like going on in
the world like I know our company like once a month like we take like an hour or so a
month to just talk about hard stuff that happens in the world like we talked about like Black
Lives Matter like things are happening like in Ukraine like it's just you know there's
just so much that's like happening and it's so important for companies to be involved
in that and so that's yeah so definitely more than just the company's product like definitely
their their culture and their values and I just yeah and I just love the structure of
like an organization like I just find a lot of comfort in that just for myself and yeah
I don't know when it comes to success I'd say that success is celebrating even just
the littlest victories that may seem lame or small you know and it's really all about
perspective like I I remember when I was just first starting out to learn how to code like
imposter syndrome would just like hit me all the time and I needed to figure out a way
to get out of that like mental state to like keep going you know and I actually kept a
well I still keep a journal that just documents like it's not an in-depth kind of a diary
entry or anything but it's just I basically write out little things that I've accomplished
throughout my life or like my career or my day even and that that helps like every little
step that you take like that's that's such a big deal and even if it feels like you're
going back sometimes but like look at all the stuff that you've like done already you
know it's really all about perspectives so yeah I think just really keeping in mind the
little things that that really helps kind of keep keep me going yeah no for sure for
sure I I kind of started doing that as well some time ago because I I felt that oftentimes
a week or so we'd go by and I would ask myself what did I do in the last week and I was busy
I know I hardly had time for anything but what did I do and so I started jotting them
down and you know using like a Kanban type thing where it's like in progress and then
to done and like at the end of the week you go look at your done column and you're like
oh that's all the things I did and then then it feels like ah cool yeah I did that thing
and I did that thing oh that's really neat I think it's cool to go back and celebrate
your own accomplishment even if they're small even if it's like I sent an email to this
person that I never thought I would send an email to you know like me was starting this
podcast like I'm constantly reaching out to people that I'm like I hope it's okay and
you have to like imposter syndrome exactly you know you like you have to get past that
and just send the thing or contact them over Twitter or something and hope they're not
like oh how dare you slide into my DMs so yeah so it's pretty cool so I think one needs
to do that and I think it's useful like I know another person on the Mycelium Network
Discord he actually keeps like a it's amazing the thing he keeps I wish I'll ask him to
share it again but it's like a diary of like his whole learning journey it's like this
whole website and you can read like everything he's learning and the struggles he's finding
and all this kind of stuff it's so interesting and I think it's nice for others to read that
and to see like wow look at this two weeks was really rough like personal events happen
that that made you like not feel like learning and or you just hit a wall because sometimes
that happens like you just hit a wall and it's like I don't think I'll ever be able
to figure this out and then one morning you wake up and whoops you just it just clicks
like closure and JavaScript it's one of those topics it's like yeah what closure what variable
parent child what and then one day it's like oh that's what closures are that's cool that's
super useful but there's a while where it's just like you're saying words but I don't
know if they mean anything I think it's really interesting I think it's good to to keep up
keep perspective about all these things and and talking about that I saw another tweet
of yours where you said you're working on a mini math word problem game how's that curry
yeah um it's it's going it's it's a lot of a lot of work I feel like my mind is just
so like I'm just I have such a creative mind when it comes to like design like I'm so focused
on CSS and like the styling and then like an hour passes by I'm like oh wait crap I
need to work on the JavaScript part of it too um and so it's yeah it's going really
well like I'm really enjoying um all the different kinds of stuff that I'm learning in in JavaScript
but um I really hope to kind of develop this math game for for kids to just kind of practice
their like math and reading comprehension because I think that's well at least for me
I know like growing up when it came to like math word problems like oh my goodness well
first off math was just not my strongest subject but combining both math and reading like that
was that was hard because like you really had to understand the text and understand like
what is the question asking for right and so I hope that that could be a it's definitely
a long term kind of a project but I hope to develop it and eventually make it live and
launch it and have it available for anybody who just uh has like kids or is a kid and
they want to uh just practice that so yeah I mean I guess it kind of goes in line with
like my passion for ed tech so it kind of works out that way too yeah that's perfect
yeah yeah that's super interesting yeah no yeah please keep going and keep people up
to date on your twitter as it evolves um thank you so yeah um I have a lot of side projects
and like some of them are just like a lot of people think you're going to start a side
project and especially if it's an open source thing and you're going to do it on get up
and the next day you're going to wake up and there's 100 stars and people uploading you
on twitter and it's just not true like sometimes you're going to build a thing and like it's
crickets but it's fine because you're learning and some and as long as you're building something
that's useful for you it doesn't really matter like if if after 10 years somebody stumbles
upon it and it's like oh my goodness look at this thing and like one other person finds
it useful that's already worth it really um it doesn't always have to be a thing that
like you know turns into the next twitter or the next whatever you know insert successful
company here it can sometimes just be something that's fun to do and scratches an itch and
helps you learn something new yeah um so if you could recommend one resource be it a book
uh online course youtube channel anything like that to early stage learners what would
that resource um definitely 100 devs the the boot camp and you don't have to join like
if you if you feel like you're you're good just kind of going on your own like you don't
have to join the boot camp but even just listening and watching to uh or watching um the 100
devs like youtube channel like leon is just such a great instructor and he knows how to
break things down into little pieces and just simplify things and um like i remember when
i came across like his his very first like 100 devs video um the the main thing that
i got out of it was you have to understand how you learn like what is the best way for
you to understand like these kinds of concepts is it by coding is it by reviewing on like
flashcards or like anki cards like you really have to understand how do you learn best and
then you can move forward from that you know and so he really helped um i'm not exactly
like following the boot camp like um in in order just because there's like other things
that i also like want to learn but um he i think really like that was just such a good
foundation was oh yeah i need to like step back and figure out yeah how how do i learn
like how do i like take information best and i know like for me like this doesn't work
for a lot of people but i love taking notes but the kind of notes that i make are like
flow charts like that is the best way for me to understand like how things like work
like i always just need a visual and then i'll be able to like pick it up and sometimes flashcards
works for me i don't know it kind of depends on like what it is but definitely making projects
and like um making flow charts really helps solidify uh complex uh concepts so yeah yeah
i think if you're a visual what they term a visual learner i think stuff like flow charts
really works well um for me as well i i i can't learn something for the sake of learning it
i have to have a purpose for it like i'm gonna create this like project or i have this client
that i know it's coming up and i'm gonna need to know x to do the work then i jump in and
i learn because it's like okay cool i can learn and i can apply learn and apply and
i think the other side of that is then this learning part and that oh i don't i can't
and then you figure this thing out taking that and writing about it i think the combination
of those three things for me personally it's just that's how how it gets stuck up here
um i i need to do it very practically like i can't just learn algorithms because maybe
in an interview i'd need to answer that it's like uh that that's draining for me to try
and do that kind of stuff like i don't know i'm not working on a search engine or anything
i i really have not i'm not doing machine learning stuff i don't really have a super
need for algorithms and i'm just gonna learn it because maybe i'll need it in an interview
yeah so for me that that doesn't quite work yeah that's great yeah i've i leon is amazing
i'm i'm gonna i'm trying to get him on the show um to talk with him about the other side
of this journey like being the the mentor the teacher who has to like help people get into
the industry make it a welcoming place and how do you teach and how do we fix some of
the the things that you've raised like so hopefully i can get him okay so we're close
to starting to wrap this up so um a new question i have because i think it might be cool is
if you could nominate someone that i should speak to and get on the show who would that
be um i feel like definitely my uh dev mentor his name is alan villa uh you can find me
on on twitter it's at r alan villa a l l a n v i l l a and um he he's honestly just such
a great resource like he's been guiding me in my professional career and um he he like
we actually have a very similar background like he also has a background in in marketing
and um i remember like the first uh coffee chat that i had with him like he really encouraged
me to uh use my marketing skills to like get into tech and so he was like you already know
html css you can totally use that within emails you can be like an email developer like obviously
it's not like an actual like dev kind of job but it's definitely a start just knowing a
little bit of html and css like it can definitely give you a step into tech and i feel like
not a lot of people uh realize that so definitely i would say him for sure like he has such
a great life story and um he's he's also just like like a really friendly guy super outgoing
guy who just uh loves life and loves coding like he's just so good yeah he's great that's
awesome i'll definitely reach out and then before we wrap up um please tell us about
any projects you're working on anything you'd like people to know about uh your own website
anything like that of course we'll put all the links in in the transcript that goes with
the show but just for you to mention anything you're excited about that you're working on
they want people to know about yeah um i mean i guess i'm currently working on uh two big
projects um there's a there's one that's called a study break reflection app and uh basically
it's the goal of the app is to kind of uh keep a student's uh stress levels in check
and to encourage the student to ask for help like when they get really really stressed
because um i know at least like for me and like my experience like sometimes like stress
actually prevents me from like wanting help or from asking for help so i hope like the
way i don't know i have a lot of ideas for how this app is gonna uh play out but yeah
that's basically the the gist of it and then um my other one like you said like a like
a math game kind of a thing um yeah that's definitely something that i'm really excited
on on working on um i don't know i'm not really good with titles for my apps definitely still
in the works but i'm excited about those projects um but yeah that's basically what i'm kind
of working on right now and um you can i'm izzy and you can find me like anywhere on
social media i pretty much have uh my brand my personal brand name izzy visuals um everywhere
so yeah you'll be able to find me great stuff thanks so much again for joining it was awesome
to talk to you it was really enjoyed i really enjoyed a lot learned a lot and um yeah wishing
you all the best with the future of your career and um like to get you back on the show in
a year or so and see where you're at that would be super interesting yeah that'd be
so cool well thank you so much really appreciate it yeah it's my pleasure thank you for listening
to this episode of the my senior network podcast if you're not already please subscribe store
and leave a review for us in your podcatcher of choice this helps others find us and helps
us make a better podcast for you on this course you can also find and follow us on twitter
at meet word mysyndium and join the community on discord all the links are available in
the show notes
