Welcome to the Mycelium Network Podcast, a podcast all about early-stage web developers
and the mentors and teachers that help them along the way.
Hey, Tara, welcome to the Mycelium Network Podcast.
Thank you so much for joining me.
Thank you for inviting me.
I'm excited to be here.
Yeah, it's a pleasure.
So I know you from the days at Mozilla when you used to work there, and I'm still there
to some extent, but you've moved on and started your own company.
And I know the work, I followed the work that you did at Mozilla, and I've been following
the work you've been doing with your own company.
And I really appreciate and respect your input and the way you look at a lot of things.
And I think this podcast is going to be a little different than some of the others I've
done, but it's intentionally so, because I think these are really important topics to
talk about.
And for early-stage people, I think they need to understand that there's more to the tech
industry and more to a job than just writing code.
How we work with each other and how we interact is as critical as the code we write.
And oftentimes, an unwelcoming environment is going to lead to not great work.
And so your code might actually end up suffering because the environment's not great.
And I think I've also spoken to some women that has had it a little tough, especially
the one, Pamela, who came from Mexico, where being the only woman in the room was definitely
hard and definitely tough, and it did affect how comfortable she felt.
And you don't voice your opinion in those situations, and that is a loss for the company
because we want diverse voices, because it makes our products better, it makes our everything
better.
And that's why I wanted to have a chat about this.
So but I don't want to ramble on.
I want to give you the floor, and I want you to tell us about who you are.
And please take as much time as you want, go as far back as you want, and be as detailed
as you want.
Thanks.
So my name is Tara Robertson.
I'm in Vancouver, Canada on the unceded traditional territories of the Musqueam, Squamish, and
Tsleil-Waututh First Nations.
Making a land acknowledgement like this is fairly common in Canada, but I think if we're
going to talk about power and talk about diversity, equity, and inclusion, like the land that
I'm on and the power dynamics just that exist in a colonial setting, they kind of inform
everything.
I also just think about the land that I'm on, and during the pandemic, the mountains,
the forest, the ocean, like, I've been able to really resource myself and my brain and
my heart and my spirit from the land.
So the land takes care of me, like literally, and we've got a responsibility to figure out
how we take care of the land as well.
That was an attention I expected to go on but yeah, like, and if this is like kind of
the magic of the internet because where it's 11 a.m. where I'm at and it's nighttime where
you are, and we met at a certain time at Mozilla, and before we hopped on, we're just talking
about the fondness that we have for the people and the culture and the work there.
So I kind of love, like at Mozilla, we were finding to keep the internet open and accessible
for all, and right now we're connected through the internet, on the internet, to have this
conversation about culture and how we want to work together.
Yeah, yeah, it's amazing.
So right now, as a consultant, I do two different things.
I do data-driven diversity, equity, and inclusion strategy work with companies and organizations
who want to have, like, an overall strategy so that they can really make this work part
of everything that they do from, like, the employee, the employee experience through
to the marketing team, through the products and services that a company is offering, as
well as stuff like procurement and where they're doing banking.
Like, for me, diversity, equity, and inclusion is a lens that we need to view everything
through, not just, like, how we write a job description and who we hire.
I love what you touched on about, like, people who think it's just about writing code, like,
but work happens, like, in a context, and just thinking about the problems that we have
right now, they're huge in the world, and the problems that we're trying to solve in
tech are really complex, wicked problems.
So we also need an environment where there's psychological safety, and people feel like
they can speak up either with, like, a wildly creative idea that might sound, like, just
way out there, and also speak up when they see something that's wrong.
And both of those things take a lot of courage.
They do.
So, like, there's the individual courage to speak up.
But there's also how the kind of culture that we build day after day together, where we
either build a culture where we can take risks and we're more likely to take those risks
together or not, where we keep our great ideas to ourselves, or when we see something that's
getting shipped, we're like, oh, is that going to break something?
I don't know.
I'm just not going to say anything.
Yeah.
We all lose out.
Yeah, no, for sure.
For sure.
I mean, and this is something that a previous guest has touched on.
She talked about harassment in the workspace.
And in Mexico, the laws are a little fast and loose when it comes to that.
And basically, she was talking to somebody, and they said, well, one of your options is
to go to the CEO and demand change.
And I'm like, wow, that is super scary.
Like, if you're somebody, this individual, that already feels out of place, and now you
feel uncomfortable and harassed, but you're depending on this job to feed your family,
and your only recourse is to go to the CEO of the company and say, I demand that you
do something about this.
What is the chances that you will do that?
Such a scary thing and such a burden to put on somebody's shoulders, it's just not right.
No.
And then there's also other costs, like the people who witness that kind of behavior,
that harassment or discrimination, they're taking that data in about this is what happens
here and this is what underrepresented people have to deal with.
So when things happen again and nothing happens, there is an impact to bystanders as well.
There's an impact to everybody, not just the person who is discriminated against.
So yeah, it's funny, I had to drop my dog off at the vet the other day, and as we were
leaving, there was a woman who'd been hit on her bicycle on the road, and she was in
the curb lane, almost unconscious, she had like, it was really intense.
And people hadn't stopped.
So I've been thinking a lot this week about what happens when bystanders overt their eyes,
when they see something that's clearly not okay, and they go by.
And then I don't think any of the people who drove by were bad people.
And I don't think that I'm a good person.
There wasn't a decision in my mind that was like, get out of the car and run over, like
it just happened.
But as soon as I kind of, I don't know, pop that bubble of bystanderness, other people
stopped, a trucker stopped, and he ran into the vet to grab gloves, a woman parked her
car behind to keep this woman safe.
I called the ambulance while someone who had more first aid experience stepped in, like,
it just takes one person to kind of name something and follow up with some action, and other
things start to happen.
So it's kind of an extreme example of a cyclist on the road, but something I've been thinking
a lot about this week.
Yeah, no, no, no, I think that's a very good example.
And I've seen that a lot.
And I think it's because I think there's so much judgment going on that nobody wants
to be the first one, because you're always afraid of what if I do the wrong thing?
Does this person want my help?
There's so much confusion these days about what's okay and what's not okay.
I think that makes a lot of us stand back and say, I think I'm rather not going to
get involved until you see other people.
And then I think our natural humanity kicks in, where we then want to all band together
and see if we can change the situation.
I saw that you, in an interview you had on open spaces, open scapes, sorry, I keep reading
it as open spaces.
In this, you mentioned two books, and I love these titles, I'm definitely going to read
these books, but I want you to dig it into them a little bit.
So it's Braiding Sweetgrass and All We Can Save.
What about those two books have been so influential?
One of my first clients when I set up my consulting business was open scapes.
And they're a data science group that they teach data science skills to researchers.
So they're working with fisheries researchers, Julie Lownes, or Dr. Julie Lownes, Julie Squid
on Twitter, she's got a PhD in squid, was seeing how do we teach data science skills
to academic researchers in a cohort model.
And they hired me to help think about DEI early on.
And some of the early things that I would do with a company around looking at HR data,
that wasn't it, because there was just a couple of them, but thinking about how to weave or
look through what they were doing through the lens of DEI, had us going down some interesting
conversations.
Like she's a marine biologist, my background is in the library and information studies,
and I'm a DEI leader now.
So it's like kind of a co-creation and a co-design, putting our passions, our values and like putting
our two heads together to be like, what is the perspective on DEI here?
And one of the conversations we had early on was like, who can afford to do open science
and to learn openly?
And most of the people she was working with were white researchers with PhDs.
So I was thinking like, who is the most on the margins here?
Where are the black researchers and where are the indigenous researchers?
And like not only how do we get those people to the table and how do we work with them,
but also like what can we learn from them?
And I knew I didn't have the answers on what are some indigenous perspectives on data science
and working together collaboratively in the sciences.
So we kind of started doing this.
She recommended these two books, All We Can Save, which is different perspectives on climate
change.
It's such an inspiring book and it gives me so much hope.
There's this great Venn diagram from Dr. Iana Elizabeth Johnson, she did a TED talk recently.
Because I think like with climate change and DEI, there's a similar feeling of overwhelm
and like, what do I do?
And it's so overwhelming.
So people are stuck in inaction and just like overwhelm.
So for me, her Venn diagram about what you should do is the overlap about what brings
you joy?
What's the work that needs doing and what skills do you have?
I think that's a really useful model, both to think about what our individual and collective
actions can be around climate change, but also how we show up around DEI and organizations.
Like what brings you joy?
Like don't sign up to do something or commit to do something that is absolute drudgery
or an absolute chore.
Like you're going to hate it and you're not going to do it.
But being clear about like, what's the work that needs doing?
Maybe it is around building better anti-harassment policies in your organization.
Maybe it's around product and accessibility, like those are two very, very different problems.
So being clear on the problem you're trying to solve.
And then like, what skills do you have?
You and I, we share some values around the open internet, but we have very different
backgrounds and very different skills and probably very different things in our toolboxes.
So what you can bring to a problem and what I can bring are very different.
So like, what's your area of genius and what are you going to do?
Yeah, I know.
I really like it.
You shared that diagram with me in the document and that is actually something I've been struggling
with.
I'm trying to find that what should I do?
And that is a very nice framework for thinking through this, like thinking about because,
I mean, our lives are finite and it's kind of pointless to spend all our time doing something
we don't, that doesn't bring us joy and that doesn't feel fulfilling and that doesn't seem
to have a purpose.
And I know there's also a bit of privilege in that, in that you can think about those
things, but I wish we can get to a place where more people can think about this because I
don't think it should be a privilege.
I think we all should have the ability to think through what brings us joy and be able
to make decisions for our lives that include having meaning and finding joy in the work
we do.
Well, you inviting me on your podcast and also welcoming conversations about culture
and psychological safety and inclusion into a podcast where your audience is mostly like
developers and startup folks, like that, your podcast brings you joy.
What are the skills that you've got?
Like you're a host and a convener of conversations that go out much more broadly than just the
two of us.
And what are you good at?
Like, you're good at being a bridge to those worlds.
So thank you.
Thank you for getting me here.
Like one of the things you are doing is this.
Yeah, that's very true.
I'm getting chills with this stuff.
So thank you for saying that.
Yeah.
Well, that's very true.
Yeah.
Thank you so much for sharing that.
Oh, can I?
Yeah, go for it.
The other book you asked about was Braiding Sweetgrass and Robin Wall Kimner is.
I don't know.
Like it's a book that braids together different strands of stuff.
There's like some of the biology stuff, like indigenous perspectives on biology, some of
her story and it's woven together.
I listen to it as an audiobook because I have a hard time reading books and I would listen
to it early in the morning as I was pottering around and just sometimes I would listen to
it outside.
And it's a beautiful book that actually kind of shifted my perspective on how we know things
and like what science is.
So I'd encourage either you to read the book or listen to it.
It's really good.
Yeah, not for sure.
I definitely owe my list.
I heard this quote the other day, I listened to a different podcast and the artist Grimes.
Apparently it's a quote from a Star Wars movie and I think one of the things that you said
is very similar to what she said, the quote that she had from that is, don't kill what
you hate, save what you love.
I think that was really beautiful.
I heard that and I was like, holy cow, that's something I want to remember.
Don't spend your energy trying to kill what you hate, rather spend your energy saving
what you love.
And I think this diagram plays into that as well.
So yeah, that was inspiring.
What are you trying to save right now?
What do you love?
So I want to create opportunity for others because I feel laced in the things that happened
to me.
I've taken chances.
I mean, before I started my job at Mozilla way back 11 years ago, I quit my job before
having had them tell me that they're going to hire me just because I didn't feel joy
where I was.
I really didn't like it.
It was killing me.
The commute, the insane hours you had to work, the people just literally not having any appreciation
for the work you did.
I was sick of it.
And even being married and having kids at that time, I knew I had a bit of a fallback
with my parents that they could support and help if things really went bad.
But I didn't do it just because of that, just because I had the safety net.
I just felt I couldn't do it longer.
And through the years, I have met so many amazing people and I've had such life-changing
experiences through Mozilla and through the people that I've met and worked with that
I want to create those opportunities for other people using the connections I have.
So that's why I created the podcast.
That's why I created the community because I know one of the struggles these people have
is being visible, being seen, having work to show to employers.
Oftentimes, they lose out because, wow, how much experience you have?
What have you made?
Well, nothing.
I'm still learning, but I just want my first chance.
So I want to give them that first chance, even if it is, not even if it is, but using
open source as a tool for that, creating open source projects and running them like real
projects and giving people real tasks to do in the open where they can then point to and
say, I've done this.
And here you can see not only that I can write code, but that I can work as a team, that
I can take feedback, that I can give feedback because all of those things are important
and that I can start discussions and bring up new ideas and all that kind of stuff.
And then giving them this vehicle where you can literally, where you can hear their voice.
So that's what's important to me.
I love to see a world where people are just happier, to be honest.
On a day-to-day basis, I look around me and I see so many people that are clearly not
happy and it comes out as anger and it comes out as people push each other away.
And I think it's simply because people are frustrated, they're scared, and they're unhappy.
And if I can do a little something to help someone, even if it's one person, then I would
feel like it was worth it.
I'm also hearing another layer in the opportunities you're working to have in open source for
new developers to look and be able to say, I did that.
They're making a real contribution to a real project that has real world impact.
It's not a portfolio assignment, it's not something for a class.
Not that there's anything wrong with those things, but there's something different about
contributing to something that's bigger than what you can do on your own.
There's a learning, but for me, what's so powerful about open source and open science
and open learning is just I feel part of something bigger.
And I love that feeling on a team where it's like one plus one equals not two, but it's
like seven.
We're really more than the sum of our parts.
When that magic happens, I feel so alive and I just feel like, yes, let's do this.
We can tackle big challenges together.
We can do brave things together.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah.
And that is the idea is to build things that have impact.
One of the projects is this curation thing where we want to make it easier for new developers
to find the information and the learning tools that they need.
Because the more and more I speak with people, the problem is not content.
We're drowning in content, we're drowning in information.
It's knowing where to find the things that work for you and also being able to guide
people down different pathways because some people learn well.
For example, you said you prefer to listen to books.
Some people prefer to read books.
Some people prefer video.
So try and find these different resources because they all exist.
But it's finding them and curating them into the space where they then are easily consumable.
And in doing that, you're contributing to something that has real world impact.
You could potentially impact somebody else's life because they're like, wow, this resource
has made it easy for me to learn this thing.
Now I can contribute back to it and I might be able to get a job through all of this.
And now you've taken somebody who might not have known how they're going to go about this
or somebody that was in a job that they weren't happy and they wanted to really do something
and you created this opportunity for them.
So it's this self-fulfilling circle of life type of thing that happens.
This is reminding me about the ideas toolkit that I worked on with the Carpentries, which
is a global nonprofit that teaches data science and coding skills to researchers worldwide.
I feel similarly about diversity, equity, inclusion, and information.
There's tons of toolkits out there.
A lot of people just want to know, tell me the 10 things I need to do.
And it was an interesting project because there was this need for like tactical, like
what do we need to do?
But a lot of it is also mindset stuff and like perspective shifting.
So working with Dr. Carrie Jordan, who's an amazing woman with a PhD in engineering, she's
the executive director of the Carpentries.
Like we went back and forth, we worked with different community members around the world
and their community, and there was this tension between like, tell us what to do, but also
like we need this to be meaningful and flexible and applicable and yeah, all over the world
in different contexts, like in the university context, in the community context, and it's
like, oh, like how are we going to do this?
And what we came up with was like for each one of these topics, inclusion, diversity,
equity, and accessibility, we looked at like things you can think about.
So like kind of open-ended coaching questions to provoke discussion or to help people who
are reading it go a little deeper and think about like what their stake is, what they
can do, and then balance that with like some tactical things that people can do.
Yeah, I think combining those two is based on both, I think it's what you need.
When you say accessibility, what does that mean to you?
When I say accessibility, I mean barrier-free access for people with disabilities.
But I'm like, is that the right definition?
Whether it's digital space, digital information, physical space, or even like an environment,
what are the conditions necessary or what are the different ways in so that anyone and
everyone, whether they are disabled or not disabled, can use the information, participate
in the setting, make their contributions?
And from a universal design kind of perspective, allowing for some of those affordances and
different ways of entry and participation, it also means that a lot of other people can
participate as well.
Like one of the examples from the physical world is a curb cut.
So like in a curb, like having an incline so that someone in a wheelchair can get on
and off the curb.
But also a delivery person pushing a large trolley with heavy packages on it can also
get up on the curb.
And for me, when I'm walking my bike, it's easier to get my bike up on the curb.
Like that curb cut is necessary for a person using a wheelchair to access that space.
And it also makes it a lot easier for some other users to use that space.
Yeah.
I love it when...
What do you mean by accessibility?
Yeah.
Pretty much the same thing.
I mean, I often look at it from a web perspective, of course, because being a front engineer,
that's where I can most have the most impact in that area.
But I do love these examples where making something accessible actually benefits everyone.
I think we're seeing more and more of that giving people choice between, do you prefer
dark mode or do you prefer light or do you prefer to switch between day and night?
Something as simple as that.
I think just having the options there is a good thing.
So for me, I mostly think about that.
But for me, accessibility is not just using the right HTML elements.
It's also about if I'm in a third world country on a low grade Android phone, can I even open
your website?
Because what load shedding has taught me is that...
So to me, maybe people wouldn't know what load shedding is.
Sorry, what was that word you said?
Load shedding.
Load shedding?
Yes.
Let me step back and maybe explain what that is.
So I think in other places it's called rolling blackouts.
So basically what it is is our electricity grid is under so much strain because of years
of ill maintenance and corruption and all these wonderful things that as soon as there's
anything that causes high demand, the grid starts to crumble and things starts to break
down.
And so what they have to do to avoid a complete blackout is they have to, on different schedules,
depending on how bad it is, they have to switch the power off for a certain area.
So you'll be without power for two hours and then you'll get power back and the area next
to you will lose power.
And so it will go every day depending.
Sometimes it'll be for four hours if it's really bad.
And so besides the fact that I have to continuously shift meetings around or not be able to attend
meetings, one of the things I've started doing recently is I just started using my phone
as like a mobile hotspot.
And sometimes though, especially when there's these long bouts of load shedding going on,
then I get like a 3G connection.
And it's fascinating to find that for people with a 3G connection, the internet almost
doesn't exist.
You can get to nothing.
A web page is like you try and do a search, it just doesn't load.
Or you would wait two minutes just for the first two, three results to come back.
And you just think that there are people whose that is their life every day.
Not just in a load shedding environment, that is their life every day.
And I think when our electricity is on and our power is running fine, I mean, I have
a 5G connection.
And so you don't realize how slow things are because everything is just instantaneous.
It's when that 5G goes away and you get that reality check that this is not what everybody
experiences the web like.
Some people experience it like that.
Then you think about that that is such a huge part of the accessibility of the internet
is thinking about, wait a minute, before we decide to use this massive framework, how's
this going to impact our users?
Are they even going to be able to open our website?
Because it doesn't matter how great our app is.
If you can't open it up, it's useless.
It can be the greatest app in the world that can solve world hunger.
But if the people who need it can't open the app, it's of no use to them.
So sometimes it's interesting to be put in these situations that's, I mean, honestly
infuriating, but at the same time, eye-opening.
It makes you think again.
And it makes you second guess when you just would have easily installed this extra dependency.
It makes you think, wait a minute, what is that going to do down the line to the people
who want to actually use this thing?
Do I really need that thing?
So it makes you ask those questions.
And I think there's a diversity, equity, and inclusion kind of lens to this as well.
One of the questions you sent me was like, what's the biggest problem in tech?
And I'm like, oh, I don't even know how to answer that.
But now I've got the answer listening to you.
I think when we've got only people in Silicon Valley from Stanford who have the newest iPhone
and the fastest connections or whatever and skew male, white, and a certain age, we miss
out.
And things that are common sense or what might be common sense to you and common sense to
me might just be outside of people's experience.
So if we're trying to design things really for everyone, we need everyone at the table.
And everyone needs to have a voice.
And it can't be an afterthought.
It has to happen from the beginning.
So it's not like, uh-oh, the world's greatest app, we need to figure out what the 3G access
is going to be.
It's like, let's design from the beginning knowing that that is going to be the access
point for some people.
And the process of doing that will lead to different outcomes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I agree.
This conversation is making me think a lot.
That's why I'm pausing.
That's why I'm pausing every now and again.
What's going on in your head?
A lot.
That's the problem.
So I was thinking about this other thing.
So I mentioned this in the doc that I shared.
So one of the core goals of the Mycelium Network is to be welcome and to celebrate diversity
and empower people.
I think I've also said that with some of the things I've said earlier.
But sometimes you do run into situations, I haven't had to deal with it, but sometimes
you do run into situations where people do come in and try to disrupt a good thing.
What is the best way to prepare yourself for this?
But then even with all the reparation in the world, sometimes these things still happen.
So not only how do you prepare, but what are good techniques for handling a situation where
somebody comes in and to be disruptive?
It's interesting because the research shows that more diverse groups have more conflict
as well, which isn't necessarily a bad thing.
But I think when we come from different backgrounds, our common sense will be very different.
So being explicit about those group norms, when we say welcoming, what does that mean?
What does that look like in Slack?
What does that look like when we meet in person?
What does that look like when we meet on Zoom or whatever?
Talking about the behaviors that we want to see, but also concretely, what does that look
like?
I think a lot about unwritten rules.
So with a lot of my clients, I've asked, what are the unwritten rules here?
Because every community and every group has unwritten rules.
People who come over to my house, they just take their shoes off because they know, I
don't wear my shoes in my house.
And my close friends who come over for dinner know, I go to bed early and I'm going to be
really clear and be like, hey, it's 8 o'clock and 15 minutes, I'm kicking you out.
And no one's offended.
They're just like, you're really direct.
I don't have these long, lingering, awkward goodbyes or I'm starting to get resentful
because I'm tired.
But we can do that at work as well.
So being explicit about group norms so that people can, new people can come in and know
what the rules are, both the official rules and the unofficial rules.
And when behavior is not in alignment with that, we can have a conversation.
We can say, we say we value all voices and have a norm around making sure that people
don't hog all the meeting time.
I've noticed in the last couple of meetings, it's the same guy who's taking up 90% of the
meeting time.
Like, what do we want to do here?
And what is the opportunity?
What are we missing out?
Is he aware that he's using up all the airspace?
Like all these things, but we have to be on the same page about what we value, what those
behaviors look like.
And like those unwritten rules, we also kind of need to make them explicit, especially
in international environments.
Yeah.
So when you say the unwritten rules, does this concept of remote first play into that?
Because for me, that is kind of important.
Like I think Mozilla, I keep going back to Mozilla because it's just something I know
really well.
I think they started out as a remote first company, but have become a remote friendly
company.
And there's a distinct difference between the two.
And I always try to think remote first.
And one of the things is always try to think who's not in the room and how you can include
them.
So does that play into this idea of the unwritten rules to actually write down the unwritten
rules?
I think writing them down can be helpful.
It's always a little awkward at first because people are like, I don't know.
But if you tease out or ask, people know what they are.
And it's kind of cool working with a group where people start to trust and like start
to say the things that we all know that are true, but we don't say out loud.
I think that's really powerful.
For me, like the last couple of years have been really interesting with the pandemic
and how we've adopted to work.
I think for me, if it's remote first or remote friendly, I think it's important that we're
using the label that's in alignment with what's actually happening.
And I think this is a DEI thing as well, because all companies will say on their careers page,
you know, DEI is part of our DNA.
It's like, well, what does that mean for you?
Like what does that concretely look like?
Show me the receipts.
So if a company says they are remote first, like, I'm curious, like, what does that mean
for them?
That is a thing.
How do people gather?
And like, who gathers in person?
Who doesn't?
Like, show me the receipts.
Yeah, that's a good way of putting it.
Yeah, because I mean, I'm struggling with that myself.
Like, I say that I want to do whatever I create, whether it be the company that I'm sort of
kind of building or the community or, you know, whatever it may be.
I do believe in the concept, but at the same time, I'm struggling to really define it.
I sit in front of a page and think I'm going to write about remote first and what it is.
And I really find it hard to nail it down.
And then I start searching online to try and find, like, who are the companies that really
do this well?
Ah, I've heard about Automatic.
They seem to be doing it really well, but I can't really find anywhere where even somebody
like Matt Muldenweg has really defined what that really is.
Like here is the 10 things.
And I think maybe that's part of the problem.
Maybe we always want a list of things.
And I don't think it's always that cut and dry that you can just list it.
It's more a feeling.
You can feel when a company is remote first.
Certain things just happen naturally without having to necessarily mandate anything.
And therefore, nobody really sits down.
So I think that plays to the unwritten rules that you've mentioned.
It's unwritten rules that you've never really thought to write down because it doesn't feel
like it needs to be written down.
It almost feels like it's you just know that that's how things are done.
So yeah, but I'm thinking of the ideas toolkit here, like maybe that one of the mindset pieces
and like, what are the tactical things like?
So what is the mindset of being remote first?
And tactically, what does that look like with the real world constraints of time zones,
work life balance, load shedding and rolling blackouts?
Like all of the myriad of ways that we work and prefer to work and like to work.
And what does that mean for accessibility?
I don't know how often you work with developers and web developers, maybe even specifically,
but as they enter this world, and some people are literally young folks in their early 20s
that's like just doing this, some are people in their 50s, some are in between deciding
that the career that they they've been doing, and I think that that's happened a lot in
the last two years where people have like realized that I don't want to go back to the
job I had before this pandemic, because I really was unhappy.
And some of it is out of fear, because people fear that they will lose their jobs to robots.
Whether that's justified or not is a completely separate topic.
But you can't, like I say, you can't argue with somebody's experience.
You can argue with an opinion, but you can't argue with somebody's experience.
So if you experience fear, and you want to do something, and you've decided that what
you're going to do is you're going to learn how to code, and you're going to get into
this industry.
Like, what are the things that that advice that you would give them from a from a DNI,
like fulfilling life perspective?
This is more from a coaching perspective, I think, especially for people like, actually
for anyone, and whether they're new, or you've been doing this for 20 years, like, there's
something really honest about writing down your goals, your professional development
goals, your goals, where you want to take a stand for DEI, writing them down, like,
there's something for me about putting something down on paper, where I can step back and look
at it.
And I can also pull it out in the future and be like, I said this was important to me.
How am I doing there?
So thinking about where you want to develop and how you wanted to develop, not just like
on the technical skills, but like, what are the soft skills or the interpersonal skills
or the collaboration skills you want to build?
Like if you say you want to help new people bridge into open source, what are you doing?
Like what's the plan for the next year, six months, three months?
What are you doing this month?
What are you doing this week?
So taking those bigger goals and breaking them down into smaller chunks, and then building
in accountability, either with your manager, with your trusted friend, with community members.
And you know, you can always drop things off there, but having some rigor to your own development
and investing in how you're growing your skills is super important.
And I think also bringing that to like, how do you want to take a stand for DEI?
And what are you doing to make your workplace or software community more inclusive?
Like write it down.
Set a measurable goal.
Are you doing it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know.
Also, I think like if you're learning new things, for me, I'm an extroverted thinker,
but there's also an accountability and learning with other people.
It's cool to like, where I'm stronger on a skill and can help someone who's maybe stuck
and then receive that help on a different skill, like we learn better together, like
so finding those people where you can help each other get unstuck on a technical problem.
But I think there's also another piece where like we're humaning together, like we're learning,
we're getting stuck, we're helping, we're receiving help, we're supporting each other.
Like for me, that's the real strength and where we can do powerful things.
So find your people.
Yeah, that's very true.
I mean, I'm experiencing that, but I think maybe it's gotten worse over the last couple
of years because before the pandemic and all of this, there would be times when I would
get together with other colleagues and we will have an in-person thing and like that
hasn't happened for three years or so now.
And I'm definitely starting to feel that.
I'm starting to feel the fact that I've been remote for a long, long time and really remote
if you want to call it that, the last three years.
And I do miss that in-person almost collaboration, but even if it's just being on a video call
together with somebody else and like working together on a thing, like talking through
a problem, I think like, even if you're the mentor and you're just talking through a code
problem with somebody, I think it's great to have that human connection and that like
feeling that, oh no, yeah, you're getting it.
You're getting it.
You're almost there.
And like, yeah, that's it.
You got it.
And sometimes it helps you also think through the problem that you haven't thought through
for a while and you actually think of better ways of doing things.
And just that collaboration, that like bouncing ideas of each other and stuff like that, I
miss that.
And I think it's going to be something that's going to be tricky for us to solve as the
world becomes more and more remote and as people seem to almost retreat more into themselves.
I think some people have concern about the idea of virtual reality becoming like something
where people really withdraw and completely withdraw into that superficial world and what
the impact of that would be.
And I think we kind of had a little bit of a taste of that the last three years and I'm
not so sure that people have handled it really well if they're being honest with themselves.
I think it had a massive mental health impact in a lot of people that they are only now
discovering.
Like for me.
Yes, and I became really close to my neighbor by playing Fortnite with her.
Not virtual reality, but like video game and we would, you know, she's very good at the
game.
So I got to I got doing something with someone who's something much better than you, it's
something I learned a lot faster.
But we would also just talk about like what what we were proud of that day or like what
we were cooking for dinner or like witness other like hard things that we were each going
through.
So both.
I think.
Yeah, I think that's the thing.
It's being able to connect because oftentimes, like you said, you connect over this one thing,
but it leads to other conversations that you actually find meaningful.
Yeah, it's interesting.
And I mean, I do I'm not anti all these other things.
I'm not like against VR or anything like that.
I think it has its place, but I think we do we do need to be mindful of how we use this
and how we approach it, that it doesn't become an all consuming thing.
I think a lot of people are talking about the metaverse and about is that the next evolution
of social media?
And it's going to be our downfall, so to speak, because I'm rolling my eyes.
Yeah, I know so much about all these things is kind of like, I should probably read more
about it.
So I have a better understanding of what it's all about.
As it seems to have like, just keeps getting more and more momentum, like web three and
the whole idea.
I mean, some of the web three stuff I do find compelling.
I like the idea of decentralization.
I like the idea of owning your own content.
I think it's incredibly important for we've given too much of ourselves away for free
for the longest time.
So I do like that.
But I think there's a lot of craft going on around that.
That's just toys, sometimes feels like toys for rich people.
And I don't know what what it's really going to solve, what it's addressing and what it's
trying to make better.
And so that is a slight concern that I have with some of these things.
But I do think that I need to understand it better, because I can't you can't criticize
something if you don't understand it, right?
You need to at least give it a chance and say, what is this all about?
And then maybe you'll find out that there's just a bunch of a minority of loud voices
that is that is making some things make it seem like it's something it's not.
And if you actually dig into the real deal of what what people actually mean when they
talk about web three, then maybe it is a good thing.
Maybe it is something we need to move towards and embrace.
Yeah, so I can keep going for for a while, but I think this was really like delightful
and interesting.
It's really nice to see you and also talk about like things that we both really care
about and some some big ideas like this.
This conversation has really filled me up.
Thank you.
Yeah, no, thank you very much.
This is really good.
It was everything I hoped it would be.
So that's great.
Me too.
Thanks so much, Dora.
I hope you have a lovely day and I hope you can chat again.
That would be really good.
Yeah.
And like ping me on the Slack or email me like if there's anything I could ever do to
support you or help you like we are in community and I truly believe like like we're connected
and we can do big things together.
So yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Have a great night.
Yeah.
Have a great day.
Thank you for listening to this episode of the My Senior Network Podcast.
If you're not already, please subscribe, star and leave a review for us in your podcatcher
of choice.
This helps others find us and helps us make a better podcast for you on this course.
You can also find and follow us on Twitter at Network My Senior and join the community
on Discord.
All the links are available in the show notes.
