Welcome to the Marseillean Network Podcast, a podcast all about early-stage web developers
and the mentors and teachers that help them along the way.
Hey, Yuri.
Thank you for joining me for the podcast.
I'm really excited.
Hey, Shauk.
Thank you for having me.
I'm happy to be here.
So in the past, I've kind of read out a little bio of people, but I thought that's super
boring and it's been done.
So what I like to do is I like to give you the floor and say, tell us about who you are
and take as much time as you need, go back as far as you need, tell us your story.
So you want to ask me how did my parents born me?
That's maybe a little too far back.
Okay, so I'm a community builder right now and I love it very much, but I trapped, let's
say trapped into the community world very, like I didn't think that I will be a community
builder because I was doing a lot of stuff.
I was a risk analyst in the bank.
I was running my internet shop and then somehow, just because of this internet shop, I've made
some SEO for it and I hired people to do it and they did a bad job.
So I decided to learn SEO.
So I went to an SEO forum, started learning.
That's how I understood that they were doing not a good job.
And while learning SEO, I started talking to people, connecting to them.
And one day I saw a message that it will be a meetup somewhere in other city.
And then I was like, okay, why don't we have an SEO meetup in Kiev?
So I just created a post and basically that's how my first community SEO club started.
And we just connected, we just had a conversation, we just had some pizza and we liked it so
much that during the time, some time, it became an SEO club, the best well-known community
of SEO experts in Ukraine.
So after that was like a marketing club, CPC Real Talk is a community for advertisers who
work with paid advertisement.
And also I'm running a sales hero community in Ukraine, it's for salespeople for sure.
And when the war started in Ukraine on 24th of February, basically I've lost my any sources
of income because it was dependent on community, I made it some courses and all this stuff.
But for sure, people didn't need to learn and all this, they needed to understand how
to survive.
And at that point, I just reached out to David Spinks, the founder of the CMX community and
told him that, hey, David, I have this experience and I'm in trouble, I need some community
job, I need something to do.
And he told me, yeah, okay, I will help you, he made a post.
That's how I found, that's how I met Steve Gargiulo from the cultivators community, we're
still working with them.
And that's how I started doing an audit for a CMX community.
So it helped me a lot to support me and my family during the hard times.
And that's how I basically become an international community, not only builder, but a consultant
too.
So it was really very fast.
So I was building my communities, Ukrainian communities for seven years.
Five of those years, I didn't even know that it called community building.
I thought that I just meet great people and we have some good time.
And then I joined the CMX community, I understood that I'm not alone in this community world.
And yeah, basically, that's how I started being a community, international community
person.
Great.
That's a really good story.
I'm glad that you had people to reach out to and that people helped you.
So I'm really grateful for that.
But you know, also it was not in a second.
So I was kind of building these connections.
So I joined CMX community like two years before and I was there.
I was communicating with people, but I just never get to know other people very good.
But at least they knew me.
So I was not like a person from the street.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I get that.
Cool.
So do you want to talk a little bit about the Community Life podcast?
Seeing that you're on a podcast.
Yes, yes, yes.
It was it was my idea I started in the sales hero community.
So what was the idea behind it?
I just choose great people, great experts from the sales world.
And we go with them and we have just this conversation about themselves.
So it's not about titles.
It's not about some tricks.
It's just about people.
So I'm really curious, who are their parents?
Like where did they born?
How their childhood looked like?
And all this stuff.
Like I just I'm just curious.
I just want to know these people better.
And we are having this conversation.
We can understand how to be a successful salesperson here.
Like what skills do you need?
Who are those people who are great?
And like when I become, let's say, international expert, I decided, OK, so why don't we have
this conversation with community experts?
And I just once again, I just reached out to David Spinks with this crazy idea.
Tell them, hey, David, I have this idea.
Why don't we try?
And he was like, sure, I've never done this before.
Let's do it.
So it was my first, let's say, episode.
And by now, I had a conversation with 18 amazing people so far.
And I keep going, you know, just one new conversation every week.
So it helps me a lot.
Like as I told, I'm really curious about people and it helps me very much to understand those
people who I am talking to in the community world.
And I really do not hunt an audience.
I don't know how many people listen to those podcasts.
But once again, the main idea is that at the moment, there are just two people, me and
the guest, we are talking about their lives.
And it's just very, you know, it's just very emotionally connected experience.
And I just love it.
So and also people who listened to podcasts, they told me that they love it, too.
So you know, click, match.
Let's do it.
Yeah, exactly.
That's exactly how I feel about this experience.
I mean, this I've recorded probably about 15 now we've released 12.
But it's also the conversations are just it's just wonderful.
I get to speak to really different people from all walks of life from different places
in the world and get to hear their stories and what makes them excited and the struggles
they have.
And that leads you to start thinking like, how can I help?
Like, what can I do to help these people?
Sometimes you also connect over similar challenges, like maybe like I'm from a third world country.
So if I speak to somebody else's also in a developing country, oftentimes they tell me
a story and I'm like, oh, my goodness, I can so relate because I've also experienced this.
But I've had some some luck.
Maybe some of it I created for myself, some of it just came across my path.
And through that, I'm able to use my connections to help these people.
And so, yeah, I I'm also like, I don't know how many I've some rough ideas how many people
listen to the show.
But that's not the most important thing to me.
To me, it's more like if somebody like my daughter, for example, she told me the other
day she started listening to the podcast and she can't stop.
And I was like, that's lovely.
I love that.
I love that somebody that's like an author, who's a little curious about coding and stuff
like that, but who likes stories, enjoy the podcast, because that's what I want it to
be.
It's about people telling stories about their life and about what they what's hard and what's
what's not.
People love to talk.
And if you if you are asking them about themselves, they will really share.
So they will share everything you will ask you.
You have to just ask it.
Yeah, yeah, that's very true.
And I've also found that you shouldn't be scared to reach out to people.
I think it's it's amazing how many people are willing to to talk to you.
So what I was what I was going to say is we had this conversation scheduled for a little
earlier than we're doing it now.
And it's because you said you had this between two water coolers meeting.
And I was like, that sounds interesting.
I've heard about between two ferns.
What is this between two water coolers thing?
Yeah.
So it's it's a super fast.
Yeah, it was I was motivated by between two ferns.
So I decided I even have this picture of Zach Galifianakis staying between two ferns.
And there are a lot of there are photos from our every meeting behind him like on the wall.
So this is a picture for between two water coolers meeting.
And what is the idea that you go there?
We collect some community experts and we just have three rounds of five minutes of communication.
So we just go to one on one breakout rooms.
We meet each other.
We talk about everything we want for five minutes, three times.
And we have just really quick and fun experience.
It allows us to build these connections to get to know each other a little better.
And also, there is no obligations.
You don't have to talk for half an hour or an hour.
So if you clicked, you can continue your conversation in the community world.
You can even go for a Zoom call.
You can even meet in person.
If you don't click, once again, no expectations.
Just go to another person.
So it's kind of, let's say, networking, speed networking or speed dating networking, something
like that.
But once again, the main idea is that it's super cool, super fast, super fun.
And just 20 minutes a week, you don't have to spend a lot of time to meet amazing people.
And once again, it's all about connections.
It's all about meeting new people.
But just another way of doing it.
Yeah.
And is this open to anybody?
How do you go about joining it?
Totally open to everyone.
I just hosted in the CMX community because I love CMX community and it helped me a lot
during my life and during all this war stuff.
And it's kind of my, let's say, I want to give back something.
That's why I'm hosting these events in the CMX community every week, every Friday.
So I just love it and people love it.
So once again, one more click, one more match.
Yeah, that's great.
I started using this app that's still in very early development called Groove.
And the idea there is that it's also people from all over the world.
Currently, it's on your phone, but they think they're looking at making a desktop version
of it as well.
And so you'd say, I want to start a groove and then it would notify some people.
And then they can decide to join the groove.
And then everybody gets on camera and you say like, what do you want to try and do in
the next 50 minutes?
And then you say, OK, let's do it.
And then everybody goes away and have a little chat window open.
And then people do their jobs and they like try to tickle stuff if they get it done.
And then after 50 minutes, everybody comes back together and you basically give a status
update of what you were able to do in the 50 minutes.
And yeah, if you work remotely and you work in, I don't know, you just feel sometimes
you feel a little lost, a little alone, maybe like you need that human connection.
And I love all these opportunities that are starting to happen on the Internet for people
to connect in all kinds of different ways.
In preparation for this, I kind of looked at your Twitter and your LinkedIn and stuff
like that to kind of learn more about who you are.
And so one of the things that I've realized is that you're somebody who loves people and
who have a generally very positive attitude towards life.
And I won't say I will definitely not say that I dislike people, but sometimes but sometimes
I get down about what we do to each other and and our planet and things like that.
So I read a tweet where the question was, if you weren't scared of failure, what would
you do?
And you replied to that exactly what I was doing now, just without fear.
And so that suggests to me that fear is not something that stops you.
So how did you get to this place where you can be okay with the fear?
You know, you never can be okay with the fear, because it's something that lives with us,
but you have you can have different response, you can, you know, you can fight or flight.
So here is the same, like I can, like, froze and stay and be afraid of everything and not
do nothing, or the fear is motivating me, you know, when if I'm afraid of something,
it means that I'm going out of my comfort zone.
And most likely, if I didn't receive results, I wanted most likely I need to go out of my
comfort zone and try something new.
So that's how I learned not to be afraid of doing something new of trying of making mistakes
and what like, what we really fear, what we're really afraid of is to make mistakes.
And even more what other people will will think about us, if we will make those mistakes.
But you know, it's like it's natural for people to make mistakes.
And it's not a mistake.
It's the way we learn, because, you know, when children starts start going, they're
falling so many times, but they continue trying to walk.
And then they're walking without even thinking about it.
So why are we afraid to try to walk?
We need to try, we need to try, we need to fall many times, we need to hurt our legs,
we need maybe even to hurt our head sometime, like not literally, but in general.
But that's the only way like, you know, some people say that you can learn by seeing and
reading about others mistakes.
But no, the best way to learn is to make your own mistakes.
And I love this saying from the line chocolate advertisement, that if you will forgive my
imperfection, I'll forgive yours.
So basically, that's how I feel.
And if I'm making mistakes, if somebody will point that I'm making a mistake without saying
how to make it better, I will just not care about it.
So if somebody will say that I made a mistake and help me to not to make this mistake in
the future, I will really appreciate it.
And that's how we'll build our connections.
And that's how we become friends, you know, otherwise, like, why care?
I mean, that leads into another one that where you said that it is 100% okay to say I don't
know.
And I agree with that.
I don't allow myself that often.
But when I catch myself in those moments, I'm like, hey, whoa, stop.
It's okay to say you don't know.
It's actually it means that this is a learning opportunity, right?
If it's something you don't know, well, are you interested in knowing this thing?
And if so, wow, we're in the age where content is, there's too much, you actually, we're
drowning in information.
So if you don't know, you can learn.
Yes, it, it saves a lot of time, because you can talk to a person.
And the person will say some words, some, I don't know, meanings or something that you
don't know.
And you can say that, oh, I'm sorry, but can you explain me this?
I just don't know.
I just don't understand.
And person will explain you this in two minutes.
And you will save a lot of time because you don't have to try things out and you will
understand each other.
And there will be no, you know, this going back and forth, trying to understand what
that person really mean, because you will understand it right away and it will save
a lot of time and nerves and sometimes even money.
Yeah, very true.
So I know that you're mostly focused on like community building and in sales and that kind
of thing.
But I think technology is part of all of our lives.
I mean, we're using it right now to be able to have this conversation.
So I'm curious, do you have any thoughts about the tech industry?
Just like a high level, like somebody from the outside, like if you're looking at the
tech industry from the outside, why do you think about this industry, like the good and
the bad?
It's a really big question because what I recently saw, like from community side of
tech industry, it's many layoffs and all this stuff.
So I'm like thinking from this point, from human point of view, and I don't really like
it right now because many amazing people lost their jobs and all this, and all they're going
through these difficult challenges, et cetera.
But in general, if we're not talking about the human side, if we're talking about technologies,
it's definitely amazing that we even have, you know, I'm in one place of the world, you
and another, and we still have this conversation.
So it allows us to connect, like not taking in the mind the whole distance between us
so, like we are currently open to the whole world and we can easily get to know even more
amazing people.
It's also, it's really like, it makes things harder because like in the whole world, there
are so many amazing people that you just won't have time to talk to everyone.
But it also makes it easier because like, you know, I'm not trying to intentionally like
choose who I will talk to, but if we meet each other, it means that we intended, that
we had to meet each other and we have to have this conversation.
And if we like each other, we'll continue our conversations.
And if not, okay, like a lot of other people are waiting to have this conversation.
So you just have more choices right now.
Yeah, that's very true.
And I mean, I don't shy away from the human topic.
I think that's a very important thing and I do agree with you.
The last two years have been rough.
There's a lot of people that I personally know who's lost, you know, who's lost their
jobs and one sometimes thinks that if this happens to people in say the United States,
for example, you know, but it's not that big of a deal that there's a lot of work, they'll
quickly find a job, but it's not always the case.
You know, I've known people who a year later after the big lives in 2020, who still hadn't
found a job and people who had to settle for jobs that they weren't really happy in because,
you know, it was just the nature of the time.
Things have changed.
Now, I think there's a different challenge now.
I spoke to somebody the other day in one of the other podcasts and so I asked him, like,
what does he think is one of the challenges for junior people and early stage developers
getting into the industry and he said the problem right now is the industry is a little
weird because of all of these layoffs, the industry has flooded with people with a lot
of experience and people who've held very high roles at big companies.
So you as a starting junior engineer, you've now suddenly faced with having to compete
with these people because they're in the pool of people looking for jobs now.
So while it's still entirely possible and people shouldn't be despondent and feel that
they just chose the wrong time to get into the tech industry, it is something we do need
to acknowledge that it is tricky, right?
It is not easy right now.
There are all kinds of challenges and this is a new one that's been added to the challenges
for early stage engineers and then it's just sad to see so many people having to go through
these things.
Yes, totally.
I want to talk about a topic that's maybe to some extent related and it's brought to
my attention.
One aspect of this is brought to my attention by a tweet on Twitter by Febcat that you shared
and then commented on and the topic was on a conversation that was had about mobilizing
communities in a time of crisis and as you've alluded to this before, you are from Kyiv
and Ukraine and so you more than a lot of people on this earth knows what a true crisis
is and the devastation of all of that, I cannot even imagine it.
I have so much compassion for everybody there.
With that big thing in mind, what guidance do you have for people who feel like their
lives are in crisis?
Trying to make a change, but they're scared of failing.
The first thing you have to do is to meet other people and to connect with other people
because when the war started, when Russia started the war in Ukraine on February 21st,
so the first thing I've did with my communities, I kind of closed all these chats because there
were a lot of misleading information, but instead of that, I created one group for people
from all the communities who wanted to connect and help to each other and I was always saying
that during the war, it's been seven months already, seven and a half, Ukraine becomes
the biggest community in the world because we are all in the same boat and we are helping
each other, so before the war, if you will go to a person in the street and ask for help,
it would be hard to find help, but now people are more open to each other and they're helping
each other, so if you face any crisis, you just, you have to, you know, it takes a lot
of courage to open your heart to people because without being vulnerable, you can't connect,
so you should allow yourself to be vulnerable and just take other people's vulnerability
and care about it, so basically, you have to trust people, you know, sometimes you have
to trust even those people who you don't know yet, but in the end of the day, you will understand
who's friend or who's foe because from my experience, sometimes those people who are
very open, who are very smiley, who are always like encouraging each other and all the stuff,
they're not really helping in time of crisis and those people who are not that, let's say,
amazing, they are really helpful when you need them and it's really hard to understand
it before you face the challenge, so also, it is really very good to face some challenges
together because after that, you will understand whether you should continue your journey together
or just to wave goodbye.
Yeah, that's true, so do you think that sometimes crisis brings out the best in people?
I will say that sometimes crisis really brings opportunities, but it's very, it's like, it's
so hard, depends on what kind of human person is because some people will give up and like
just go with the flow, do nothing, and other people will try to find ways to make things
better and it's just nature, you know, like in nature, if an animal is weak, most likely
it will die, but if it will fight, it will win, it will continue, it will survive, so
you know, humans are still animals, so we need just to fight, we need just to continue
our conversations, continue cooperations, and you know, like what the war teaches me
that if you are alive, if you are healthy, if your family is safe, like nothing else
matters, like you will find a place to live, you will find money, you will find food, you
will find everything, like there is no problems unless you are dead.
Yeah, that's very true, I think we often take being alive for granted.
Yes, exactly, we think, we struggle with not having money, we struggle with not riding
fancy cars, we struggle with not wearing like new clothes every week, but we just don't
care that we are alive, and like what the war showed me that many people are dead and
they will never come back, so yeah.
So as you've mentioned, so all of this is happening in your life, and you're still doing
all these things, right, you're still recording podcasts, having conversations with people,
you're running this two water coolers thing, you're always, whenever I see you on Slack
or on Twitter or when I watch the podcast recordings, you're always like such a positive
spirit, to put it that way, who are the people, events, books, stories that motivates you,
that makes you be who you are?
First of all, it's my family for sure, because you know, with other people, they don't know
real me, and I also have my ups and downs and totally will never see me when I'm down,
but my family sees me, and they help me a lot, they support me a lot, and they are not
always having a good time with me, you know, I'm not an easy person, but at the end of
the day, we always talk, we always find ways how to work things out, you know, so I'm like
married for 11 years so far, and we've gone through a lot, and we're still together, I
have an amazing kid, like 10 years old, and it means a life to me to have my family, and
like, beside a family, those people who supported me during my community, all this war journey,
I would say that it's for sure Lisa Barocca, who I work with in the Call to Address community,
it's Ella Andeongue, who I work with in the Call to Control community, it's many people
from the CMX community, such as Ill Care, such as Lori Goldman, such as Koresh Ghaffari,
so, there are like tons of super cool people who are helping you, even though you are not
asking them to do it, so I'm so happy that I'm working in this community world, because
it's like, it's not, I don't know even how to explain it, but it's totally different
to all other spheres, because I was working in SEO, in sales, in marketing, there is no
such support in any sphere as you receive in the community world, and I'm just amazed
with it, and it also motivates me to do the same, to be the same person, so all these
people, when I see the generosity, the openness, their helpfulness, I want to do the same,
so it's like the will of life, you do something good, then somebody else will do something
good for you, and it's just continuation, it's how the energy works, if you do something
bad for people, I don't know whether to call it karma or not, but if you do something bad,
you will definitely receive something bad, and if you do something good, you receive
something good, so why don't we do something good?
Yeah, for sure, when you put it like that, it's like, duh, why would we not do good things?
Yeah, no, I totally agree, and I have to say, I've been on part of some of these communities,
Slack channels and things like that, and it is definitely a different world than what
you see on a lot of other places, where there's so much communication and open sharing, and
people are never negative towards each other, people are always encouraging you when you
share content, people are always encouraging, oh, that's really good, and people would look
at your stuff and give you feedback, it's definitely a different thing.
The one thing that I found, though, for those people that I work a lot with, early stage
developers, is they're scared of joining communities because maybe they're shy, maybe they're unsure
of themselves still because they're new, so what can a community boulder do to bring those
people in and make them feel safe and make them feel welcome and ensure them that their
voice is welcome and that they are welcome to speak?
First of all, it's a human touch, you know, that's exactly, so I'm working with a community
of tech experts, and we have kind of two community in one, so we have code control community
is a community of top senior experts, tech experts, and we have 9am community, the community
for every freelancer, but we are only in Europe, because we are building this tool for freelancers,
and we are letting in people from Europe to join it, but the main idea is that as a person
join, we start communication, we start the onboarding process, and we reach out to this
person and we explain how the community works, and we always say that if they need any help,
they can always reach out to us and we are here for them, so they don't have to start
a thread in like crowded channel, they don't have to introduce themselves, they don't have
to do nothing, but we encourage them to do it just because, you know, the worst question
is unasked, and the question which didn't, I don't know how to say it in English, sometimes
I miss my words, but the worst question is that you didn't ask, and we are explaining
it to people, and they can always reach out to me and Ella, my colleague who I work with,
and we will always help them, they can ask us any stupid question, even if they think
that the question is stupid, they can ask it, we will never tell them that the question
is stupid, but we will help them, that's exactly, you know, when I was studying in the university,
we had two different kinds of teachers, like one type is who you ask a question, and those
people make you to feel your stupidity, so they tell like, really, you don't know this?
Why are you still learning here? You have to go away and do some low-paid work or something
like that, and other people, they won't do it, they will answer you any question, even
if you're asking them what will be 2 plus 2, they will answer you, they will explain
you that it will be 4, and they will explain you that why, so you have to be open and you
have to tell people that it's okay to ask, it's okay to ask for help, it's okay to like
be not perfect, and it's really a lot, it really depends on a community builder to build
this level of trust, to build this level of vulnerability, to build this level of openness
in the community, otherwise, and if the community builder is showing it themselves, other people
will also do the same, and if like, yeah, so you show an example, you show people how
to act, and then they do it without you, so then you have this amazing space.
Yeah, that's great advice, that's definitely what I'm trying to do as part of the community
that I'm building, I'm definitely trying to encourage people to ask, but I'm also encouraging
them to ask in a venue that they feel comfortable in, and then slowly push themselves a little
bit out of their comfort zone, and a little bit more, and a little bit more, until before
you know it, you're welcoming new people, you're the one welcoming the new people, you're
the one saying how can I help, but it starts small, and then you build up over time, and
for other people it's easy, they just have a natural tendency to just join in, they just
join a community and start talking, but you shouldn't feel bad if that's not you, we're
all unique creatures, and you should play to your strengths, but at the same time, as
you said, don't be scared, take a chance, trust other people, trust that people are
generally good, and they have your best interests at heart.
Thank you, Yuri, this has been a really good conversation, even though it's been really
challenging with technology, but yeah, we made it, and in closing, is there anything
that you would like to, just any thoughts, words of wisdom, any inspirational things
that you'd like to leave the community with?
I will just share what I'm always doing, there is no overnight success, and if you start
small but constant, at the end of the day, at the end of some time period, you will receive
great results, and that's what really relates to community building, because you won't have
a successful community in one week, even in one month, most likely even in one year, but
if you constantly keep doing and doing and doing, keep showing up, keep talking to people,
keep encouraging, keep motivating them, at the end of the day, you will have an amazing
community, so start small, be constant, and you will receive big results.
That's great advice, and I 100% agree with that.
Thank you again, thanks again, Yuri, it was lovely to talk to you, we should do this again
when internet connections and technologies are playing along, I'd love to have a conversation
with you again, all of the very best, thanks for everything you're doing, and stay safe.
Thank you very much, Auk, it's an amazing talk, and I'm happy that we met, so yeah,
see you in the community world.
See you in the community.
Thank you for listening to this episode of the Mycenae Network Podcast.
If you're not already, please subscribe, star, and leave a review for us in your podcatcher
of choice.
This helps others find us and helps us make a better podcast for you on this course.
You can also find and follow us on Twitter, at NetworkMycenae, and join the community
on Discord.
All the links are available in the show notes.
