Welcome to the Mycelium Network Podcast, a podcast all about early-stage web developers
and the mentors and teachers that help them along the way.
Hey, Chelsea.
Welcome to the Mycelium Network Podcast.
Yeah.
Thank you for having me.
Thanks so much for joining.
I really appreciate it.
So you were one of the many people that reached out over polywork when I did my initial, like,
are people interested in this kind of thing?
And I'm still blinded by how many people were interested.
So you were one of the folks, and then I started doing it, and I got so caught up in the whole
process and all the other things that I do.
But then eventually, I was able to get back to you, and we were able to set this up.
So I'm so glad that we were able to do this.
I think this is going to be a really interesting conversation.
I've done some research about you and found some really interesting things that I'd like
to dig into.
So I'm looking forward to the conversation.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Thanks for reaching out.
I've been having fun making some connections on polywork, and I saw that.
And I was just very interested in your project and what you're doing.
So that's kind of what prompted me to respond.
It sounded like you were doing some really interesting work yourself.
Oh, that's good to hear.
Glad to be here.
Yeah.
So I normally ask people to write a little bio in the document, but that's more for me
to use when I post it.
In the beginning, I read it out, but I thought, oh, it's so been done, I want to do it differently.
So what I decided to do is I'm going to let you tell your story instead of me giving a
summary of your life story.
So take as long as you want, go as far back as you'd like, bring us up to the current
day.
Yeah.
So just in general, I'm a software engineer and creator, I guess, generally speaking.
I do a whole bunch of different work in my day to day, but I got my start really when
I was a kid.
My dad started a software company when he was just out of college, so I grew up with
computers and the internet and being around all that stuff and developed an interest in
it pretty early in my life.
And so I went to college for, well, the degree was in liberal arts.
It's a background in philosophy and mathematics and science and music, everything.
It was a pretty interesting program, unique as far as I could tell at the time.
I was at St. John's College in Annapolis, Maryland.
So that's where I got my undergraduate degree.
I went on to get a master's in philosophy and education from Teachers College at Columbia
University, and you can see that none of this has anything to do with technology yet.
So that's my formal background.
Yeah, that's my formal educational background.
And then I'm mostly self-taught with everything that I've done over the years with the tech
side of things.
But I did grow up around it.
It's been ever present in my life.
So I've had a lot of exposure to tech and just lots of tinkering over the years.
And so I started out, I kind of wandered around a little bit after grad school and I hadn't
really found a way yet, but I just started teaching myself how to build websites.
And I went from there and now I do all kinds of things, write software and still make websites.
And I run a podcast and I just do a little bit of whatever I can do.
I like to craft my own career around whatever keeps me learning the most.
So I'm likely to get bored if I'm working on something for a really long time and not
changing it up.
So that's kind of how I've built my professional life so far.
Yeah, I can totally, I know what you're saying.
Me too.
I need different things, otherwise it just gets, and I want to keep learning.
That's the big thing.
And I'm naturally curious.
And so I was in the corporate world for a while and it just didn't fit at all.
I was so frustrated and it was so meaningless that I just felt like, no, no, no, this is
not it.
This is not it for me.
So yeah, the whole polywork philosophy really clicked with me, especially when I heard the
founder express what it means, because at first I was just like, oh, it's another shining
little social network.
Let me go see what it's about.
And then when he explained it, I was like, oh, right.
That is exactly what I was looking for.
So it's great.
Yeah.
So I've spoken to a couple of early stage folks so far on the podcast and also just
in general, I have some folks around me and I've mentored some people in the past.
And the one thing that's, I don't think it's something I could really go away ever, but
I do understand tech has become, I don't know what the right words are, but it's become
this profession that is almost a little bit elitist in a way.
I think we want to change it.
I think we acknowledge there's a problem there and it shouldn't be like everybody's welcome
and anybody can do this, you know, if you put your mind to it.
But maybe it's the nature of the work, maybe it is the environment you work in.
I'm not sure exactly what is leading to this, but the one thing that I've heard from everybody
is even more so than finding like good education material or finding good mentors or anything
like that, the one thing that they find is imposter syndrome hitting them from day one
almost.
And sometimes, yeah, and sometimes just feeling like they're not sure if they made the right
choice, like especially people that are changing careers.
And I was looking at your blog and you recently posted one called Coming Home.
And in that, you mentioned the sense of unbelonging amongst peers and leaders and how it relates
to how we measure ourselves.
And so I'd like for you to dig into that a little bit if you don't mind.
Yeah.
Yeah, I went to my 10-year college reunion, which is always weird.
I think college reunions are just going to be weird no matter what because it's just
awkward.
You don't remember people, blah, blah, blah.
But it was a really good time.
It was really neat to see everyone and hear about everybody's professional progress and
meet their kids and all of these things.
But I went with my partner and we were talking about it afterwards and she was like, everyone
who was sitting around in that circle talking, almost everyone at least, it seemed like everyone
had taken these almost taken years to kind of meander around and end up, they almost
kind of had this delay, this like six or so year delay post-college where they were wandering
trying to figure out what it is they really wanted to do with themselves.
And some people are still wandering, so that's fair too.
It takes longer sometimes.
But there's this delay in kind of kicking in with what many of us probably would consider
real professional progress that she observed from that group that I thought was very interesting.
And I think imposter syndrome probably, I mean, in my case, it definitely does have something
to do with it and probably did with these peers too.
But the idea that I was thinking about was just sort of like, well, everything that everyone's
saying here, we're all comparing ourselves to an ideal, to that person that we idolize,
to whomever it may be.
We're comparing ourselves to a standard that we don't think we've reached yet.
That's kind of natural to do.
But when you do that, you don't often remember to look on the other side of the spectrum
of your own progress because it's impolite to do so usually.
You don't want to be like, oh, I'm better than that person.
So you don't usually allow yourself to do that kind of reflective thinking.
It's just like a bad habit.
It's considered impolite, whatever it might be.
So it's not something that we are prompted to do very often.
We're not prompted to look either at others or even just measure against our own progress
and look back and say, wow, I'm much better than that.
I have at least the skills to know that I have moved from point A to point B along my
journey of progress.
So even just having a moment to self-reflect can be useful sometimes and we often don't
make that time for ourselves in our professional lives.
But yeah, that was the thought with that post, it was just like I definitely have struggled
with unbelonging and imposter syndrome, but I have, I guess I would say I've recently
started to become more comfortable just knowing what I used to not be able to do and can do
now.
Yeah, so that kind of was the reason for that post was that social occasion where that feeling
seemed to be felt by people my age and people with whom I graduated and things like that.
Yeah, yeah.
Do you think, it's interesting to say that you've recently started to be able to deal
with it better.
Do you think this is something that comes with experience or age or is it a combination
of it?
Because for me, I think, I'm still ice and struggle with it heavily, but I am better.
If I'm honest with myself, I am doing better with it.
And I do think age for me plays a role in that.
I'm at a point now where I feel like I don't have to prove myself so much anymore.
I don't have that need so much anymore.
Yeah, I think it must have something to do with it.
I think you can't really get that reflective quality until you've done some things that
you can reflect on, so you're really not going to have that backward looking experience.
But yeah, I think it's just important to give yourself time to establish that you care about
something professionally, first of all, because before you do that, you don't have a standard
against which to measure your own, I don't know, your own chunk of your career, whatever
it is, in the general world, the general professional world, until you've had a little bit of time
to establish yourself, learn what you like and don't like, until you've had some time
to try and fail a couple of times.
It's hard to form that perspective.
But I think that it's possible to work on it, certainly, if you're a little impatient
without waiting.
There are things you can do, like even polywork you mentioned has been good for me to address
some of these things.
I think finding accountability to put yourself out there a little more aggressively than
you might be comfortable with doing, so having professional peers publish that blog post
before you're really ready and have them review it, things like that.
Stop getting in your own way a little bit is the way I would describe it.
It's just like, okay, I'm holding on to this so tightly because I want to be a perfectionist
about it, but do I really need to be in the way of this right now because I'm the one
who has to push the publish button.
I can worry about it being perfect all day long, but I still haven't pushed the publish
button.
That for me was what was getting in my way.
I was my own worst enemy there.
Yeah, I think that's common.
I know my daughter, for example, she's got in between a couple of ideas of what she wants
to do, but I know that she has a real passion for writing.
I think her work is really good, and I've told her that, but I don't think she believes
it.
I think it's because there's this fear, and I'd like to ask you this because it leads
into this second topic that I've had in the dark.
I think social media plays a big role here, right?
It's created this idea of perfection that does not really exist.
People are so scared of being wrong, and I don't understand when that switch flipped
over and we went to this thing where it's such a bad thing to sometimes be wrong, where
it's such a terrible thing to sometimes fail, and where people always want to show or pinpoint
the things that you didn't do well, instead of just celebrating the humanity of that and
celebrating, having an idea and putting it out there.
I ran into this with a... I found a guy on LinkedIn that made a little glove that has
these sensors on it, and so if he moves it around, it can turn silent and get into audio,
but he's also put NFT chips on each finger.
If you program it, then if they get near to an object, like a blind person, it can tell
them what the object is, and I thought, that is so cool.
That is such a great idea, and I shared it in one of the Slack servers that I used to
be on, and wow, did people poo over that, all over that.
They did not say, this is a great idea, but it has some flaws.
It was just all out, this is like, oh, not that terrible idea, and I was like, I'm leaving
because this is super toxic, I don't want to be in a place where you criticize ideas,
because I think ideas is what's going to move us forward as humanity, and if you're going
to start just killing people's initiative, then I don't know where we're going.
I rambled a little bit there, but I'd like your...
No, no, not at all.
I think that social media definitely plays a role.
I also think it's much easier to respond with negative criticism than it is to offer suggestions
for how to improve things, especially in online communities where anonymity doesn't kick in
and say that it's not that little voice in the back, you don't have that little voice
in the back of your head that says, hey, maybe think before you say this out loud, because
you're not looking at the person's eyes, you're not going to insult them to their face.
Those kinds of things that happen in face-to-face interactions with people, and we've had even
less of that since COVID, so I think the problems have gotten more intense, but those are the
sorts of things that allow us to pause and take a breath and maybe just not sling that
mean comment or criticism or whatever.
All of that's absent on social media, so unless you're very, very good at self-moderating,
which hardly any of us are, it's just so easy to just pop in and be like, well, I don't
like that, I don't like the colors, I don't like the whatever it may be.
I see a lot of design stuff on Twitter, and any time any redesign of anything is released,
it's just a huge thread of thousands and thousands of, I like the old one better, or just whatever
the criticism may be.
It's just because it's so easy.
It's much more difficult to confront a problem and say, hey, this is a good start.
I think I would maybe think about improving it in this direction.
It requires you to think and do some work in order to engage that way, so many of us
not having the time usually just choose the pithy little criticism.
But I was going to say earlier too, I think that writers would probably have this problem
more than others, being isolated from a professional network, which I also do find myself feeling
that I am, just because I've worked up to this point, I've now actually started an LLC,
but up to this point I was just working as a freelancer, so like a contract, I didn't
have a company, I was just operating as me.
But I think when you run a consultancy like that, it doesn't give you a whole lot of opportunities
to just sit down with peers and hear whether or not the work you're doing is any good.
You hope that the client's happy with the project at the end of the day, but there's
not a lot of quarterly review with your manager to tell you how you're doing kind of stuff
as a freelancer or a solopreneur or whatever it may be.
While that most of the time doesn't bother me, when I think about how I'm doing professionally
and how I want to improve professionally, I have to go seek out feedback from non-traditional
sources in order to get it, and it's very hard to do that, and it's especially hard
to do that and go find the positive feedback that would help you manage that imposter syndrome.
So I would imagine, I think writers would be particularly challenged by that for the
same reasons.
It's like your work product everybody can read and they can like it or not like it,
but how do you appeal to the professionals who could help shape your career?
How do you reach out to people who can give you a positive, valuable feedback like when
you need it, when you're most drained or most in need of some help?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think that's a very, very good point, and I'm going through that, and I think I found
some things that's helping, but there's still a gap there, and so I think this is something
that beginners also struggle with is finding mentors that build them up and won't break
the spirit.
So that's why I'm really careful about managing the MySQL network, the Discord server aspect
of it really, really closely.
Like daily, I open it a couple of times a day to just make sure conversations that happen
or it goes in a positive direction, and even, I'm not saying you always have to agree,
like disagreeing is good.
It's how you learn.
It's how you learn to sometimes look at something from a different perspective, and sometimes
you find out that maybe you were wrong or not even necessarily wrong, but there's a
different perspective, and you can agree to disagree.
That's good.
The thing is when those conversations become toxic and when there's somebody that has a...
You can see that they always have something negative to say.
Like they never have something positive.
It's like, no, no, no.
Yeah.
I think that in tech especially this can be difficult because at least from my own personal
experience there's a lot of what I would probably call neurodivergence in tech, and what that
can mean is that there are a lot of different ways of expressing ideas and difficult problems
and concepts and arguments even or discussions.
There are just different individuals that don't mix well together in certain kinds of
conversations even just because of some of those factors that you're never going to be
able to account for all of those things.
It's very difficult to manage.
That's what I found, but then there are also some things that borderline into...
This is with tech generally.
There's some borderline behaviors that have been allowed to flourish in certain tech circles.
We see this with big companies with culture problems usually don't hear talk about it
until it becomes like a Activision Blizzard or an Uber or whatever it is.
You don't hear about this stuff until it bubbles up to the surface, but there is a lot of kind
of just not exactly even bad behavior sometimes, but just not supportive encouraging professional
behavior that happens in these places that is just allowed to happen.
People just start to assume that that's the norm for behavior, so it can be really hard
to foster communities where people are respectful in a way that you're talking about.
I really appreciate that you're doing work focused on that because it's a real tough
problem.
No, it is.
It is.
It's early days, so I think I'm still in the honeymoon phase if you want to call it that.
I hope to be able to drag it out as long as possible, but I'm in a privileged position
in that respect that I do have access to other people that's been in the community space
for quite some time that I can ask for advice because I want to prepare myself for not the
inevitability.
I don't want to be negative about it or pessimistic about it, but should something happen, I want
to be prepared in how to handle it.
I don't want to have to figure it out as it's happening because oftentimes... Oh, there's
you.
Sorry.
No worries.
Was I not muted?
No, you were.
I hope I'm muted.
Okay, good.
I hope I'm muted myself.
Anyway, sorry.
Go ahead.
No, no.
You did.
Because I think often in the moment, you might react in ways that's going to make it worse
rather than better if you're not prepared because it might be heated and so you might
fall into the trap and instead of bringing the temperature down, you might just add fuel
to the fire.
Yeah.
I'm bad at this even my way of communicating when I'm in the middle of working, I can only
do one thing at a time.
I only have a single thread in my processor, just the one, but I can only work on one thing
at a time.
So we live our lives on these messaging-based apps.
So I live on Slack and Discord and Teams and whatever combination of all of those things
I need on my desktop at any given time, but I'm always on, always connected and when I'm
trying to work on something, somebody pops up with a DM and I'm usually blocking because
I'm the one who has all the keys to the AWS and all of that stuff in my organizations
usually.
So if I'm the one blocking, I have to stop what I'm doing to go work on something, which
means that I have to rip myself out of my context and plug into another one and so my
style of conversation can be very like, here's what you need, goodbye.
Sometimes people do not respond and I'm not mean, but even just, I was just thinking about
that the other day.
I'm like, I should probably be a little more intentional about taking a second to think
before I just shoot off whatever message, even if it only needs to be this brief little
informational thing.
I should probably at least just think before I just start typing.
Just think before you start typing is a good principle.
I mean, it's probably a good way to behave on social media too, but yeah, I just go into
this automatic got to get it done mode and sometimes that busyness I think even can contribute
to a tone that can be unapproachable for some people or some styles of workers or thinkers
or whatever it may be.
No, that's for sure.
I think doing many things and working from home, there's so many interruptions that naturally
happen throughout the day and I think those can compound without you even noticing it
and somebody might just DM you at the wrong moment when you've been interrupted multiple
times already and then you're just like, ah.
Now you're just in a bad mood, but it has nothing to do with what that person asked
you.
Yes.
Yeah, I try to manage distractions in a couple of different ways.
I bought this Pomodoro timer.
I did a huge, I kind of took a moment this summer to professionalize and kind of redo
my setup and that's when I formed a company too instead of just working as a freelancer.
So I started doing all of this stuff, but one of the things that I did was try to manage
my time better and so that required a couple of things and one of them was this timer that
makes me work for 25 minutes and take a five minute break and I get a lot more done now
and the other thing was using a cal, I use cal.com as a calendar integration software
so that I have too many calendars on too many projects and I need them all in one place
and my phone is one of those places, but I can't share my phone with people so I had
to make it so that people could schedule things because I was just spending so much time in
my day scheduling things and I'm like, I need to either pay a virtual assistant which I
can't really afford yet or I need to have some sort of calendaring solution.
So that's been another really important thing of the working from home time management part
of my life.
Okay.
Those couple of little tools have made a good big bit of difference, so yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
I recently also created like a calendar that's a feed of all my other calendars just so that
the calendar counters.
Because the thing is I ended up, not too regularly thankfully, but it was getting a little bit
out of hand where I would double book myself because I would look at the wrong calendars
and I would forget, oh, dang, that other client also had a thing, oh, now I have to go back
and say, can we do it an hour earlier or an hour later?
And so I was like, no, no, no, let's go and keep it going on.
And also my days were all over the place because I wasn't always sure what the heck I was doing
so I was like, have a calendar that's a view into all the things, because then at least
I can look at that and say, okay, here I have two hours with nothing and I'm going to make
sure I keep those two hours of nothing, because I think that's the other thing.
That's actually been the most, yeah, that's been the most beneficial part, I totally agree
with you.
It's the having access to your own time that comes with having that view, that macro view
of all the calendars.
You have access to your own time in a way that you don't have without it.
So you can be more efficient even in that way, because you know that you've got unscheduled
time.
Yeah.
That's also been very important.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I can imagine for people changing careers, like going from being, let's say, a lawyer
to being a coder, I think for them those types of time management things are critical too,
because you have this day job that you can't just now quit.
You have to take your time and make sure you're ready before you and you have to get that
job in tech that can support your lifestyle that you've already had.
So I think for them, time management is also like, I'm sure, very tricky.
So hopefully some of this information will help them as well.
Yeah.
Circling back to the social media aspect, I started off being very indie and being very
like running my own blog, all these kinds of things, and I don't know when, but at some
point, I don't know if I just got lazy or what was the story, but I neglected all that
stuff and at some point it hit me.
I was like, my goodness, if these social things go away, a lot of my thinking and thoughts
and stuff that I've written and videos I've made is going to all be gone.
And I then just stepped back and said, wait, wait, wait, wait, how did this happen?
I still don't know, but that's okay.
At least I'm now pivoting back heavily towards the indie webcam camp, because that's what
I love.
I love that aspect of making your own things, owning your content, having a domain where
your stuff lives and you have control over that.
So I am doing more and more and more of that, but I saw what you've done, like I think that
I haven't even thought about doing, and you have created an archive of your Twitter account
on your website.
Yeah.
I wrote a post about how to do it.
I need to do the follow-up because I need to talk about the publish once and just syndicate
everywhere part of that equation.
I got really into Leventy, which is an indie web favorite, I think, static site generator.
It's a really cool tool.
So I got into that because I needed to move my personal blog off of Jekyll.
It was on Jekyll, and development stopped for that, and I just needed a new tool.
When I got into that, I was like, well, this is pretty cool how all of this works.
It just generates the whole website based on a couple of JSON files, is pretty much
what it does.
So it's really cool.
So if you feed it the appropriate data, you can do anything.
So if you can access your own Twitter feed, pull out the tweets from it, you can just
dump them in an archive, and that archive does go up to the point of that publishing
of that post.
I need to pick up with the project and keep going, but yeah, recently, I took a similar
path to you.
I kind of left to go explore all the shiny social apps, and don't get me wrong, I spend
plenty of time on social media.
I love TikTok.
I learned so much from TikTok.
There's so many interesting people on it.
I'm a big Twitter person, and I think being a writer and a tech person, that's just kind
of natural.
I spend a lot of time on social media, but I also spend a lot of time thinking about
how bad social media is.
And I'm also spending a lot of time thinking about actually if maybe professionally I want
to start to work on some of this problem.
It's more from a content creation perspective, because I'm really worried, I'm really primarily
concerned with your content, you owning your content, you being able to make money from
your content however you want to, I'm interested in all of this.
So yeah, anyway, I did create a Twitter account, I'm very interested in the Indie Web.
I'm interested in how the current generation of people creating things on the web could
potentially migrate off of these platforms where they get locked in, and onto a syndicated
content model.
So I'm actually doing some work along those lines, and we'll see if it ever materializes
and becomes anything.
But yeah, I'm thinking about it a lot, because I'm a little tired of being beholden to tech
behemoths that come and go and behave badly in the interim.
And I have to work, you know, like my day job, what I'm considering my day job, one
of my big contract projects, I have to interface with meta on a regular basis.
And it's just the most soul sucking, thankless, like it's just impossible to actually even
talk to a human at meta, which is frustrating from a developer experience perspective.
But anyway, so there are a whole lot of reasons why not to lock yourself into any social platform,
any content platform, and I'm a big fan of finding ways to do that.
And then helping just the everyday consumer find ways to do that, which I think is the
big missing link right now, just average Joe Schmoe who doesn't know how to deploy a website,
how do we get those people ownership of their domains, you know, so.
For sure.
Yeah, it's incredible to me when I sometimes speak to folks that's been even to some of
the bootcamps that's around these days.
And sure, they've learned quite a couple of things, but then they're like, I don't know
how to get this online.
How do you get it online?
And I'm like, wow, they didn't teach you that?
That's like so core to the thing.
What does it help?
You can make all these things, but you can't share it with the world, like, do you just
always have to...
There's actually a huge...
Yeah, sorry, go ahead.
No, no, no.
I think it was mostly that.
It's just like, I think it's such a big part of it when you're learning is to make your
own thing, not put it on somebody else's thing.
Yeah, so yeah, go for it.
No, I've noticed, I think there's a big opportunity for documentation in general to do a much
better job here because I spend a significant chunk of my time in any given week reading
developer documentation and almost none of it that I've come across tells you how to
harden a project and deploy for production.
It's just like, here's how you get started.
Good luck.
Nothing tells you how to be ready to have actual users using your thing and in fact,
a lot of them do things that are not best practices for production deployments in their
tutorials because they expect you to understand that it's not for production, but sometimes
when you're learning, you don't expect that.
So yeah, as a self-taught developer, I found that to be pretty frustrating, but it is a
pattern there.
I mean, not having attended a boot camp myself, I can't speak to the quality of them, but
I do know that from some people who have graduated from them, that they have been less useful
than they would have hoped for that reason, that you just don't learn.
You learn a lot of the fundamental, the starting points, but you don't learn how to actually
execute on a vision, which is what everybody wants to do when they go to a coding boot
camp.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Not for sure.
But you mentioned earlier that you are the co-host of a podcast called 16 to 1 with co-host
Katie Day.
Do you want to tell us a little bit more about your podcast?
Sure.
Yeah.
So having mentioned my background in education, you can probably imagine how I ended up here,
but I just am obsessed with podcasts.
I love the medium.
I think it's interesting.
I've heard some of the most fascinating stories of my life through podcasts, and I have a
couple of favorites, and so I listen pretty regularly to those.
And so for a long time, I'd been like, I really should try this.
I love to talk.
I love to think.
I love to, you know, whatever, learn new things.
That was the main thing.
I want to be able to do something that makes me learn something new every, however often.
And I'd been talking about it with my partner for a while, and I was just like, we got to
do this.
We got to do this.
And then we chose to do it right at the beginning of a global pandemic, which was an interesting
choice on our part, let me tell you.
But yeah, about a little more than, I guess, like two and a half years ago now, it's been
a while.
We started recording episodes, and we post every other week.
And it's about education, teaching, and learning.
My partner is a teacher, public school teacher.
And again, like I have an interest in a background in education, although I'm not a classroom
teacher.
But yeah, we talk about education every other week, and I've been doing so for years, and
we have a great time.
And it's a lot of fun.
It's really just something fun to work on together, more than anything.
But yeah, that's what we do.
Yeah, listening to one of the episodes last night is really cool.
I really enjoyed the style of it.
It's very conversational.
Yeah, I really enjoyed it.
I'm always curious.
Yeah, we try to have fun with it.
Yeah, for sure.
It comes through.
Yeah, you're hitting it on the head, the nail on the head.
I'm always curious also about in the actual education, well, I mean, actual, but teaching
at a school.
I'm always curious about the experience of that because it has changed so much.
In some ways, it hasn't changed at all.
In some ways, it's changed a lot.
And I always wonder what is the experience like for teachers now in the school environment
from multiple perspectives, you know, like just working with kids nowadays, like kids,
the way kids react and the kids behave have changed.
Like our, even us as adults, our ability to pay attention has shrunk considerably.
And I think with Jane Z, is it?
I think that's what the almost latest folks are.
I honestly can't keep track of them all.
I can't either.
I was with my daughter the other day, like, what are you, what are your young friends,
what is my sister-in-law?
And I'm trying to figure that out again, but yeah, like, you know, what it's like to work
in that environment where you, you're fighting like these super interactive and super, I
don't know what, I can't remember the words now, but, you know, you're just fighting a
technology that is built to keep your attention and you as a teacher have to somehow get their
attention in the same way.
I think it must be a massive challenge and I'm, you know, I'm really thankful for people
who do that because yeah, I mean, I'm, I'm trying to do that from a developer perspective,
but, you know, for the most part, the people that you interact with there are people that
are self-selected to learn this thing.
Like the tricky thing in schools are oftentimes the kids aren't necessarily interested in
what you want to teach them and that then that's the first hurdle that you have to overcome
is to take a subject and make it interesting.
And I always, I don't always know if teachers are given the tools they need to do that.
And so...
Yeah, that's a good question.
We're actually about to record our next episode we're going to do it this afternoon and it's
going to be on inquiry based learning.
So it's about creating the conditions in which students can become interested and take ownership
over what they are learning.
So that's something that we worry about in our classrooms.
But yeah, I too am in awe of teachers, I say a majority of my friends are teachers for
whatever reason.
I'm just around them all the time.
They're everywhere in my life.
And what I hear most often is that, yes, that there are attention issues with technology
and for sure, and discipline issues.
I think the biggest thing though is what makes it difficult is actually the parents of students.
That's what makes it really, really hard to be a teacher is that if you could just go
to your classroom every day and not deal with parents and just teach the kids, then it's
great.
But there's so much managing of bad parent behavior and expectations and complaining
and all kinds of just like helicopter parenting.
But it goes in different ways absent, you know, absent parents, all kinds of you just
you're overcoming so much at that point.
You're working to overcome so many factors that honestly have nothing to do with school.
They're about these people's lives.
So we expect our teachers to do the work of, you know, five, 10 professionals all in one
because we expect them to be psychologists, we expect them to be disciplinarians, we expect
them, you know, some kids come to school and that's the only meal they get during the day.
So like that's the kind of those are the kinds of conditions under which we're working.
So it's not only all the all the stuff that we're normally worried about, you know, following
behind peer nations or whatever it might be about our educational system, which we definitely
are doing.
But but I think what we really need to kind of do is I really think that there's an under
an under commitment of resources to education, you know, formal education in this in this
country at least.
But I think we have a lot of work to do to prioritize education because it's the one
thing that is able to open up doors for people, you know, and I think we should be putting
more money into the educational system and putting more more time into making sure that
it works for all kinds of different learners.
Yeah, for sure.
As somebody from a third world country, I can say it's not just the United States, it's
prevalent everywhere.
We have other problems, compounding, compounding the problem, but it's interesting the parent
aspect of it.
It's unfortunate that that is such a big problem, because that's a hard one to solve.
It's very, very hard one to solve.
How do you think like you kind of touched on it earlier when you talked about you read
a lot of developer documentation, like, it doesn't always have the things that you would
expect that you have.
What do you generally think about like education models and stuff like that when it comes to
the tech industry?
Is there anything that you find that's been done really well and then the opposite?
That's a good question.
I haven't come to tech through such a strange circuitous route.
I probably wasn't exposed to a lot of what would be considered this kind of thing in
the tech industry, so I probably can't speak to it with a great degree of certainty.
But I think that the times when I've personally, professionally benefited most have been times
when I've gotten to learn from peers who are patient and helpful and interested in answering
questions.
Even just making yourself available to answer questions can make a difference in somebody's
professional life if you're in a mentorship position.
So I think we have a lot better opportunity for mentorship in tech.
I'm so self-directed as a learner that I've always wanted to know all of this stuff.
So I've never had a problem with motivation like what we were talking about before.
I've always been curious.
So I've never had to be the sort of person who had to slog through something because
I'm choosing to slog through everything I choose.
So yeah, I don't know.
That's a good question.
It's such a broad thing.
I think that higher education in terms of tech, so like formal computer science programs,
I think what I know of higher education is that they lag behind industry in such a way
that the real, I think that the real reason that they exist is to pair you into a professional
network.
I think that's why higher education is, unless you're going to do research or something really
difficult.
I briefly considered going to do a natural language processing program because I was
really super into machine learning and stuff like that.
Then I was like, you know what?
I don't want to sit, I don't want to do a research.
I don't want to be in academia.
I want to make things and do things.
I think, yeah, anyway, I think it can be hard to find a way in if you're not going to go
one of the accepted routes.
Technology is one route, getting a computer science degree and going directly into a startup
is another route or an established tech company.
But if you're not going to do that, it's very difficult to discern a path.
Then I also think that the big tech companies probably don't do enough to invite a variety
of different learners from a variety of different backgrounds into the fold of technology.
That means that not only are there formal educational problems, but there are also problems
of, hey, do I identify with anyone in this group?
Am I going to be a total outsider here, either socially or economically or whatever nationally,
whatever it is?
A lot of these problems are social and cultural problems more than education or employment
problems, I think.
Yeah, that's really true.
I want to cycle back to that in a second.
What I do think there is a real need for is some kind of mentorship network.
Honestly, I've been in the industry for quite some time, but I do new stuff all the time.
I'm not always sure am I doing this the best way that I could possibly do it.
I recently did a project where I worked with MongoDB, but then I was using this abstracted
layer on top of it, and I would love to ask somebody, can you have a look at this code
and just tell me if it's total garbage or if I at least understand the principles of
this tool that I'm using, because I think I'm doing a decent job and it works, but like
you said, if tomorrow 10,000 people hits this website, is it just going to fall over because
I'm not using it correctly?
I heard somebody speak the other day about using Apollo with GraphQL, and there's a very
good reason you should use Apollo because you can so quickly shoot yourself in the foot
because of the nature of how GraphQL works.
You can actually end up creating 50 queries hitting the database, and where if you use
Apollo, it says, oh, I see what you're trying to do, and it figures it out, and it takes
all of those 50, and it's like, I'm just going to do one query, get this data, and I'm going
to sprinkle it everywhere you need it for you.
If you don't know about that stuff, you're going to just say, hey, it seems to be working
fine, everything is great, and then your client launches the website, and the next morning
you wake up to a bunch of angry voice messages because their website's down.
Or like a $10,000 bill unexpectedly, stuff like that can happen if you have something
based on, yeah, if you have something based on usage, whatever it is, you can get yourself
into scenarios really quickly where you're just unprepared, and I would love to see more
developer documentation that has a kind of two-tier approach where it's like, here's
how you get started, here's how you actually deploy a real production environment here,
because I think that people just expect people to know best practices about that, but I got
to tell you, I've been handed so many projects as a developer where it's like, our last developer
did this mess, can you please un-mess it up, and so nobody knows how to do this stuff.
Obviously, some people do know how to do this, but you don't start out knowing this stuff,
so somebody has to tell you along the line how it should go, so whether that needs to
be on, the onus has to be on developer documentation, I think writers of documentation should do
a better job of doing this kind of, it is a kind of education, so I think that should
happen, but I also think that the keys to those kinds of operations are usually held
by a small number of people at any given company, and so that means that there's not often as
much exposure to those principles of practices, process documents, whatever it might be, there
just aren't as many people who know how to do that stuff in general, so I think we should
try to open up that knowledge more, because even if not everybody is doing it, everybody
should know how to do it, you know, if you're working in tech.
Yeah, I know, for sure, and I think the nice thing about documentation and creating educational
material around this is there's less of a need then to be there in person every time.
I can't remember who it was, but there was somebody that I read about that, like if they've
received an email twice, they post them the same question, they write a blog post about
it, so then the next time they get the same question, they just point people at the blog
post, and I thought that is really a clever way of doing this, because that puts the information
out there, but it frees up your time, and it makes it discoverable by other people that
just search for like, how do I X, and then it's like, yeah, your blog post post pops
up that was an answer to an email, so I think, like I said, a mentoring network would be
nice, but I understand the difficulty of that.
It's like, it's people's time that you're asking for, and in general, people are pressed
for time to start with, so, you know.
The other thing I've struggled with there is that mentoring in the abstract is very,
it's not very appealing to me.
I mean, mentoring with somebody I don't know, I guess is what I should say, that's what
I mean by mentoring in the abstract, so I've always, you know, been very close with my
teachers, just somebody who was curious and interested in education.
I've always been, you know, I've always been close with my own teachers, and so I've benefited
greatly from a couple of mentors along the way.
Now, these people were not in tech, so I really don't, I mean, I have the benefit of working
with my dad pretty closely on one of an ongoing contract project that he's still working on
in his pseudo retirement, so I've kind of gotten to learn a lot from him, but it's a
little bit different when it's family, so I don't have like a, you know, a non-family
tech mentor, I don't think, so it would, and that's just because, for no other reason,
for me, I'm a contract worker, had been a contract worker, and it's difficult to form
a long-term relationship with somebody that you trust when you do that kind of work, and
so I do think there's like, I totally see a need for it.
I don't know how people like me could get into, you know, maybe like a Discord server,
like what you're running would be a good place, because I do spend a lot of time hanging out
in those places, but I need to feel like a mentor is personally invested in me, and that's
what is basically impossible to find, just in the way that I exist professionally on
a day-to-day basis, so.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't have a solution for it.
I know there's a need.
I'm not entirely 100% sure how to fulfill that need yet.
Maybe it'll happen organically via the Discord server?
I don't know.
I think it's got to be much easier.
It's got to be much easier than just smashing two people together and say, okay, here's
your mentor, which can still happen productively for a lot of people, to be clear, but this
is just, for me, I need to, and that's why actually that Discord approach does appeal
to me, because I can get a sense for people before I DM them and say, hey, can you help
me with this thing, or whatever it is that way, you can get a sense of who's working
on what?
Are they going to be interested in your question?
Are you going to feel like you're wasting your time?
That kind of stuff, you can pre-figure out some of that before you dive in to a more
formal relationship.
Yeah, that's very true, and I try and regularly post there encouraging people to ask questions,
because I know people ask questions.
I know that.
Working on an open source project on GitHub and stuff like that, that's scary for people.
That's why I've told people, look, we're all working together on this project, but if you're
all uncomfortable about opening the pull request because you feel like, I'm not sure if my
work's good enough, let us, people that you feel comfortable with, create a Google Doc
or something, or a Notion, thing a Notion, and ask people to go and proofread it there.
If that makes you feel more comfortable, and then you can slowly start dipping your toe
and maybe put your foot in and see how it feels until you feel comfortable, but I think
in the end of the day, you should start building up the confidence to do it and to work in
the open and to be okay with receiving feedback that is maybe not always, you're doing a great
job.
Sometimes it's like, thank you for this, but there's this and this and this thing that
you can do, but I understand and I feel for it.
For me, I had to remind myself of that because I've been working in the open for 11 years
or more now.
For me, it's almost like if people talk about that, I'm like, what do you mean it's weird?
Then I'm like, remember, you've been doing this for 11 years.
Think about 11 years back when you had to open that first pull request on this repository
that everybody can see.
How did that feel?
It was like, oh, right, that was kind of scary, and so you have to sometimes just step back
and go back in your own history and remember that it wasn't like it's now.
Now maybe it's just how you work, but it wasn't always like that.
Yeah.
I recently, I was working on a side project and I was like, what am I going to do with
this thing?
Am I going to turn it into something?
It's a little application.
I play Dungeons and Dragons with my friends and I built a little app to manage my character
sheet and I started playing with it and I started forcing myself to use it during sessions,
which was a really fascinating... I mean, it's a similar approach even though it's still
just me.
I did open it up to the group, but I was the only one who used it because everybody else
had paper character sheets.
I wanted mine digitally, so I kind of opened it up before I was really ready and it didn't
go well every single time.
Some of them are, there were some quite spectacular fails of sessions because of it, but I learned
a whole lot about my own app that I was working on building it that way and it actually even
kind of changed the course of how I'm going to actually open source it now.
I'm going to rebuild the thing in Node and do it that way and I'm going to open source
it.
I learned from that experience that putting it out there is really not the worst thing
in the world.
You just got to go for it.
I'm going to see it.
It's going to be really fun.
I've contributed to some open source projects here and there, but I've never actually built
my own, so I'm hoping maybe eventually I'll have a fun little tool for people to use.
Just holding yourself accountable, even publishing that blog post or just deploying that first
staging build, whatever it may be.
You don't have to have something that's perfect and being used by tens of thousands of people.
You can just have a thing that works for you.
That's even one step in the right direction of coming to be able to have a better barometer
for your own success.
Yeah, for sure.
I recently spoke to one of the folks in the MySQL network who's a beginner and I told
him you don't always have to build a thing that is going to be the next Twitter or whatever.
It can just be something that helps you and maybe four years down the line somebody stumbles
upon it and they're like, oh, this is really cool.
I'm going to use it too.
Now you have a second person using it.
If that even never happens, it's okay because you've learned something.
You've made something that's useful to you and that's good.
There's nothing negative about that.
That's like with the blog post principle that you were talking about earlier, if you get
two emails turned into a blog post, I started doing that with myself where if I repeat this
process more than once, turn it into a blog post because that's why I have stuff about
deploying on DigitalOcean on my blog, just random stuff that's so easy, basic walkthrough
tutorial stuff.
But the reason all those exist on my blog is because I had to keep doing them over and
over again and I kept making the same mistakes in the same places and I'm like, why didn't
I write that down the first time?
Now I've got content, yay.
It's good to do that.
I also look at my own blog posts to go set things up sometimes because I'm like, well,
I've already done this once.
Why would I put myself through it again?
Yeah, no, that's definitely, that is very good advice.
I do it less often than I should.
I sometimes make notes and I never go back to the notes and then the next time I hit
the same problem, I'm like, I have fixed this already before, darn it, I have to figure
it out all over again.
Cycling back to your podcast and a topic you touched on related to the cultural aspects
of tech and I think this is in other industries as well, but being in tech, that's probably
what's easiest to speak to.
The episode I listened to from your podcast was the most latest one, which was about women
in STEM.
Yeah.
And I've spoken to a couple of women on the podcast before who it's like getting into
that and had very different experiences based on where they came from culturally.
Also physically, like the one was US native, the other one was from Mexico that recently
moved to the US, but they're still struggling with some aspects of being a non-native American.
And so this is an area for me that I think needs a lot of work, so I was very glad to
see that you've really highlighted and dedicated a whole podcast episode to it.
If you have to share with us, because I would encourage everybody to go listen to that episode
instead of trying to rehash it here, but what I would like is if you can give us the big
takeaways that you've discovered through talking through that topic.
Yeah.
I mean, I think at this point, most people are aware of the problems.
They're the sort of more loud media confronting issues where you get people, sexual assault
in the workplace, stuff like that.
We've got problems there, but then we also just have things like just the sheer numbers,
just representation in tech is still wildly imbalanced.
There's just a very wide gender disparity.
So yeah, that episode is just kind of all about that.
And it mostly exists, it's going to be the fact that we have to start making progress
right now because we're backsliding, we're actually reverting to an even worse state
in terms of these things.
So we need to, and I mean, there's some extent to which some people think this isn't a problem
to be solved because it's one of interests.
By that I mean, well, it's fine because women don't go into tech because they're not interested
in tech, which is if you work with anyone under the age of 20, which through my work
on the podcast and for my partner, I'm exposed to young learners, you know that women are
just as interested, girls are just as interested in technology as anyone else.
So it gets a little, the main takeaway from the episode is really just me asking the question
if half the world is, if 50% of people are women, why are like 19% of software engineers
women?
It just doesn't even, and just asking the question is an affront sometimes to folks.
But for me, it really is just like the question, isn't that weird?
Doesn't that strike people as weird that there's such an imbalance in particular career fields
and why, how do we get where we are?
How do we get past where we are?
That's everything that we tackle in the lesson.
But for me, I think the main focus is just on like, how are we going to start to overturn
some of this?
How are we going to encourage?
And I think it starts with some of our youngest learners because I think some of the disparities
around gender representation in tech start very, very young because we encourage our
girls to play with certain toys and dress in certain ways.
And we encourage boys to do different things.
And we definitely don't leave a lot of room for other gender expression in there anywhere
either.
So there's just like a lot of work to be done to strip all of that out of the space.
And I also think that the other main point that I guess I would take away is that if
you're lacking representation of anyone in your workplace, you're missing an opportunity
to do better than you're doing because you don't have that unique voice on your
staff or whatever it is.
If you don't have that, then you're just doing yourself a disservice from a business
perspective even.
So it just makes business sense to be better about this stuff.
But anyway, yeah, that was the kind of, that was that.
I had gotten particularly frustrated about it because we'd been listening to a podcast
about For All Mankind, which is a TV show about the space race, kind of re-imagined
history of the space race between USSR and the United States and it's a really fun show.
But they had a companion podcast and it was just kind of talking about the history of
involvement of women in NASA and astronaut training programs and how much more difficult
it was for them just because they were women.
So that was kind of the inspiration for all of that episode.
But yeah, it was a fun conversation, but we still have a ways to go.
Yeah, I know for sure.
And I mean, yeah, I totally call bullshit on the whole interest thing, just to be blunt,
because if you want proof that I'm right in this situation, go listen to the episode I
did with Pamela Rodriguez and you'll hear, I'm not just talking towards you like people
who hear this.
If you think it's an interest problem, go listen to that episode.
The way she grew up in Mexico, you're not encouraged as a girl to go into technology.
That's not your field, it's something boys do.
That is the message that is clearly being said to them.
She was lucky in that her parents encouraged her to go and do that because I believe her
father was also in tech.
And so that helped.
But for so many other people, so many other women in Mexico, that is not even an avenue
they think to explore, not because they're not interested, just because you're told that
it's not something you would be interested in.
And one thing that I, a while ago, realized is representation is a big part of it too.
If you do not see somebody like yourself in a role, it's hard for you to have something
to strive towards because you can't, I can never find the appropriate word for this,
but there's no connection there.
It's like you just see a bunch of people that's not you doing the work.
And so you think that, oh, maybe it's not meant for me then.
And so it's those bubbles we need to burst and say, no, that's untrue.
And we need to lift up people who are trying to change that, give them a voice, give them
a platform to talk and say, hey, I'm like you and I'm doing this, you can do it too.
Because yeah, it's not an interesting, it has nothing to do with that.
It's literally just people don't see themselves in these roles and therefore they don't pursue
them.
No.
There's a musical, it actually is just closing I think now, called Come From Away, that ran
on Broadway for a couple of years.
And it's about what happened in Gander, Newfoundland on 9-11 when they had to divert all of this
plane traffic to this tiny little island in the middle of nowhere.
So that's the story of the show, but there's a moment in it where there's a character,
she's a pilot and she's singing about how, well, the whole song is just basically about
how she grew up with everyone around her telling her that being a pilot is not for girls.
And she evolves into this woman with this flourishing career as a pilot, but did it
despite the fact that she could, despite the fact that everyone around her was telling
her this isn't for you, her peers or colleagues, even her co-workers, her female co-workers
didn't like her, based on a real person, they didn't like her because she was perceived
to be of a higher status than they were as attendants on the flight.
So anyway, all this kind of stuff that happens, but that song makes me cry every single time.
My dad is a pilot too.
You can tell that my dad being in tech and my dad being a pilot has a lot to do with
all of this stuff, but he's kind of the reason I got into all of this stuff.
But yeah, there's a line in there about basically, yeah, just about like being a pilot and stuff.
And it makes me cry every single time because I just like to see myself represented.
I like to see some strong female characters stand up and say, look at what I did, despite
the fact everyone around me told me I couldn't or never invited me in or, you know, I was
never given the opportunity, I had to take it for myself.
So I really like that, just because it is so important to be able to see that's, yes,
that's me.
Yeah.
Identifying with peers, I mean, the same thing happens in media, like being able to find
yourself in media is important for a lot of people.
So yeah, it definitely does matter, having examples of other, you know, of peers with
whom you feel like you can share something and identify and grow is very important.
Yeah.
Apparently that's one of the reasons why Fresh Prince of Ballet was such a popular show,
because it was one of the first ones that was an all-black cast.
And the people who played it weren't like poor, like the father was a really successful
person in law, they had a big house, they were living in like, you know, they had riches
and wealth and all that kind of stuff.
But then also you had this representation from the other side, like the person who came
from, you know, down and out and is now living up here and like there's this difference.
But the fact that you had those two different economic aspects, but then you had an all-black
cast as well, that made a big connection with a lot of people, and they could see themselves
and they could also see themselves not being the one that lives in the projects or whatever
you want to call it, but the one that lives in the big house in Ballet, you know.
So that was interesting when I learned about that, I never thought about it that way.
And when somebody like vocalized it, it was like, oh, goodness gracious, yeah, that makes
total sense.
And for me, it's normal to see white folks living in big houses and being really successful
and running billion dollar companies.
But if you don't see that as somebody that's not me, then it's hard.
Like you feel like you have to be the trailblazer and it's hard to be the first person, right?
It's always hard to be the first one to say, I'm going to change it, I'm going to do this
thing different.
Yeah, it can be too weird to as a woman in tech, because I don't go around thinking of
my own experience as gendered in tech, I just think of my experience.
So I don't, when I'm living in it, I don't look around and think like, oh, well, this
is happening because I'm a woman or because I'm not a man or whatever it might be.
I don't have those kinds of thoughts.
But the problem is, is that maybe nobody does.
We always think of these things in terms of the systemic problems and systemic under representations
and we tend to big picture these things to the point of almost oblivion because we don't
know what we can do about them anymore when we think of them as big widespread issues
to confront.
It's almost like a way of abstracting it into nothingness.
So I think that I have had some struggles in my own career just being in such spaces
that are so dominated by a single kind of voice and it's usually a white voice and it's
usually a male voice and that's just the way it is.
It doesn't bother me that that's the default necessarily, but it does bother me when we
forget that there's a default that we've selected.
So it can cause monoculture if nothing else for sure, which is something I'd like to avoid.
Yeah.
Like you said, it's literally like it's bad for business and I mean, I've experienced
this not in the business sense, but in the community sense.
Some of the stuff that we've done, we have people from all over and people whose native
language isn't English has called out some of the stuff that I wrote as like, it's good,
but like if somebody with my background reads this, I'm going to find this specific area
really complicated.
Like I couldn't understand what you were trying to say here and then they would like, and
it's amazing how deep that the guy would dive into this and like trying to understand what
I'm trying to say and I'm like, holy cow.
And then he comes to me and he says like, could we reword it this way and I'm like,
of course we can.
And that makes so much sense that that is just going to make, and now it's more approachable
for a lot of people.
That's like accessibility.
Like you do a thing that makes it accessible to this group of people and hey, guess what
happens?
A whole bunch of other people benefit from it as well.
So I think that's the thing, changing the mindset to what you benefit, the benefit you
derive when you do this thing might be what it takes to change minds.
Because I'm not sure, there's an instant hostility toward almost anything you try to say about
this in tech and the reason, I mean, it kind of makes sense because we just don't have,
we don't have the tools, we don't have the culture, we don't even have the practices
and habits of conversation to be able to have the difficult talks about this stuff that
we need.
So having a really good conversation about a difficult topic, like why are there so many
men in this office and not as many women or something, like if that's the topic, having
a really difficult conversation about that takes skill and it's not something that can
just be expected to go well.
And I think that that's like, so I think that it can be really difficult because there aren't
a lot of tools that business leaders are given to know how to navigate some of those kinds
of conversations.
We just kind of assume we have the best idea in the room and that everyone's going to listen
to us and that our CEO word is gold or whatever, but we need to realize that these difficult
kinds of conversations need to happen in a particular moderated civil way and they actually
do need to happen.
We can't just say, yeah, we're not going to talk about politics in the workplace, that
kind of thing.
Like that was a real big trend a couple of years ago, it was like Basecamp and Coinbase,
I think both within like a week of each other, the CEOs were like, no politics in the workplace.
And I'm just like, we are political creatures, like we have to exist in the world, which
means that politics is going to affect our lives, so we have to find a way to acknowledge
difficulties in our workplace and still be productive on the other side of them.
So I was just kind of disturbed by that chilling effect, but at the same time, I get why people
are hesitant about having these conversations because they can go so badly.
They can go very wrong, that is for sure, they definitely can.
This has been a great conversation, I tend to say that with all of these, it's so great
to just be able to talk to people about all these things and like hear different perspectives
and it's always eye-opening, I really enjoy it.
I'm glad I started it and I can't remember who it was, but there was some podcast that
said everybody should have a podcast and I'm starting to agree, it's such a great medium
and to just get to speak with such a wide variety of people and it broadens your perspective,
it's almost like traveling in a sense.
So yeah, I'm going to go dive into your podcast now that you've been telling me about these
episodes, it sounds fascinating, I'm going to have to give a listen.
Yeah, and I'd love your feedback, like I'm learning as I'm doing this, like I have no
background in podcasting, I just decided one day to start doing it.
I did not either, so you just kind of seems to be the way of it.
Yeah, you just wing it.
Start going.
Yeah, for sure.
So to close this out, I've kind of two things, maybe one can be just general advice to people
getting starting to learn to code and new to development, any words of wisdom?
Yeah, I think the thing that has helped me most is establishing rituals.
I call them rituals, but it's really just good habits.
I mean, if I call them rituals, then I think I'm cool.
So you know, but good habits throughout the day.
So I used to be a real night owl and I still do stay up late, but I used to think that
I liked staying up late and sleeping in.
But what I actually like is having time in the morning to wake up before I jump in to
tasks.
So I, again, this is back to the kind of scheduling thing, but I go to bed at a reasonable hour
most nights now and I get up almost every day at eight and even though I work from home
and could get up at noon if I wanted to, but I get up at a set schedule every day.
And I take up my dog on a walk at a set schedule every day and establishing those things for
me has been, it's freed me up to think about my work and not to have to think about managing
my life and schedule, which is kind of infecting some of my workflow.
So I think that, again, especially if you're a solopreneur or a freelancer or you're just
starting out and you're self-directed, if you have to be in charge of your own time
and also if you struggle with distractions or ADHD or your brain works like mine, coming
into habits that you can call your own that you actually relish, like I make, I don't
have been drinking as much coffee, but I used to make my coffee every single morning at
the same exact minute.
And I light a little candle when I come into my office every single time so that it smells
nice and I play music on my sound system every single time.
I get into the workspace and I'm lucky to have a home office too.
It's been important to have a separated work space that isn't part of my life space.
But coming up with these things that are just kind of like things that you do every day
has been, I think, key to my feeling like I have a more coherent grasp on my own professional
life these last couple of months, especially as I've been working through some of these
things.
So that would maybe be the bit of advice that I would give.
Just come up with your rituals.
You can define them.
But coming up with these things will help you kind of maintain a good sleep schedule,
healthy work-life balance, and just the motivation to keep going.
Yeah.
That's great advice.
Definitely.
And you kind of alluded to some things, I guess, now like music and coffee and things
like that.
What do you do in your downtime?
Walking the dog?
Yeah.
Walking the dog, yes.
I have a golden retriever.
I walk the golden retriever, my partner's dog.
I make music.
I'm actually, my office has got a bunch of guitars and keyboards and stuff in here.
But that's mostly just for me.
I don't really publish, I mean, it's on the internet, but I don't, you know, there's some
things that I want to be just for me.
So I do make music.
I like, I mean, I do stuff like 3D printing.
It's any like tinkering or art or just any kind of creative pursuit.
I'll do it.
I've got bins and bins full of crafty stuff and electronics and Arduino kits and just
whatever tinkering is to be done, I'm going to be doing it because I just enjoy it.
So yeah, it's a little bit of everything, a little bit of travel, but a lot of music
has always been important in my life and I do like making it.
Yeah.
That's great.
Well, thanks so much, Chelsea.
This has been a wonderful conversation.
Yeah, thank you.
I'm so glad we made this happen finally.
I'm looking forward to your next episode of your podcast, seeing that we kind of like
just ran into the same topic during this one.
We did.
We did.
So I'm looking forward to hearing what you all talk about and yeah, glad you joined the
Discord server.
So, you know, it's going to be fun to have you around.
So enjoy the rest of your day.
I'm excited.
Thanks so much.
Well, thank you.
It's great talking.
Thank you for listening to this episode of the My Senior Network Podcast.
If you're not already, please subscribe, star and leave a review for us in your podcatcher
of choice.
This helps others find us and helps us make a better podcast for you on this course.
You can also find and follow us on Twitter at NetworkMySenior and join the community
on Discord.
All the links are available in the show notes.
